David: I have mine and then Neil has PA class so I have to share for him too
First, ASG services is winding the year down, what we did was write project breifs so we can get going in the fall I have been pretty sick but I ma proud of the work they put in
Jobcat: in the past week as a reference point, we have 10 new posts, and we have twice that many messages flowing back and forth with residents, so if you put up a post you are likely to get 2 messages in response, it is gaining traction and the momentum is building and we are really excited about that
If you are looking for a summer job there are so many available working for a restaurant
Steven: please go sign up for reNUvation I know post dillo day is a lot to ask but it is a short clean up event for the sake of improving our community relations and so evanstonians know that we don’t want to leave trash all over the fill, its no huge event or long term thing, just show up for an hour pick up some trash and then sleep for the rest of the day. 
There will be food and every little bit helps, last year it was about 30ish people and it took about an hour, this year we are over 30 already
Motoki: if you cant make it during the 30 min span..
Steven: if you can make it at all.. show up, 30 min is better than no minutes. 
Noah: does that count as community service, should I send it to the community service chair
David: announcements for neil, faculty and administrative honor roll, you all should have received an email, voting closes frieday its on tues from 5:30 to 7, let honor those that taught us best
Student faculty interaction budget: up to 300 dollars per event, intellectually stimulating, faculty that want funding must fil out a form, it’s a pretty neat program to inspire intellectual discourse 
Working on accounting classes, improving CTechs, that we came up on the exec retreat, working out to appropriate admin, if you want to get involved please let me know. He will send out another full list
Dillo day: get stoked, eat at the food trucks. Say hi if you see me in the golf cart but don’t ask for a ride
Victor: the priorities you saw that is being turned into a document
David: the newest American everyone!
Brad: off campus senator apps are due tonight at midnight, if you are a senator and you are re applying do that by midnight, 
you should have gotten an e-mail, there is a forum on alc policy and culture tomorrow from 530 to 7 at harris, if you want to come you need to RSVP, please email you should all come and if the legislation passes today about the working group, 
Ethan: HEY EVERYBODY: I have my notebook so you know ist serious
The ASG IT Student advisory committee: its me alex and victor. We talk about tech. 5 quick things
Wi-fi, there are some new installations with the student affairs renovations, Allison, some green spaces, over the summer
5k improvements, those will be put in place this summer, the police are subsidizing it because they are inserting security on the lakefill
NUTV, was actually kind of up for grabs, not sure if we wanted to continue it. A lot of people use it, and they value it, so that’s continuing into next year
There are a lot of new PCs being upgrated in the tech basement, they are being put in
New macs in the library basement
Blackboard is being upgraded, OH MY GOSH, its actually not that big of a deal, you might not be able to tell the difference,
There is a rubrick feature so profs can communicate assignments more clearly
Mobile learn: accessing blackboard via android last sente, they are working on it, mobile learn integrates with blackboard, via ios android and everything else, also wifi and cellular networks. 
Ani: as brad mentioned, off campus senators, apply, shoot me an email, it’s a very cool spot, its kind of a bad ass caucus, just putting that out there, 
Not of transparency, minutes and agendas are both online, forward those to your friends
Thanks for stopping by my office hours
I ask that you shut you laptops during our gues speakers so you can give them their full undivided attention
Donna cuartero is here to talk to us about her newly created diversity position
Dona cuartero: thank you very much for inviting me. I have a disclaimer, those of you who know me, you know this, I have a fan if I start using it it has everything to do with age
What were doing at the university to deal with diversity as we move forward
The provhost, the position I have was created in the april, before that I was the assistant prohvost for faculty development, underrepresented faculty
I was a resource for tenured line faculty
I also did a lot of connecting people to one another
The provhost asked if I could work for diversity and inclusion, not I work with students staff and alum, we thought it was important because prior to this we had a lot of diversity initiative but they were all pretty disperate isolated efforts, we thought we needed a more centralized effort, we can find out if there are any redundancies, something that would have a broader look
We have put in place a university diversity counsil, the counsil now includes reps from the student body faculty staff and alum, we have 5 working groups focusing on distinct areas
Faculty recruitment: taking the place of the faculty diversity committee, more recruitment for underrepresented, 
Academic requirement: there is a group that is working with Weinberg admin, a group of students and faculty who have been looking at this through Weinberg
Mary finn has been the coordinator, this group will look more strategically across the university
This will take a while, the provhost stated that its not easy to make academic changes across the board like that
We will have reps from the school of music, medill, etc. 
Campus life: focus on inclusion efforts across the university whats the environment like? We want to make sure that everyone feels welcome and can learn and grow
Pipe line: bringing more underrepresented undergrad to NU and preparing them for graduate study. 
Out reach, exposing kids at younger ages to college and to nu, increasing the pipeline at all different levels
Lifetime Connections: reps from all the affinity alumni groups, the black, Latina, muslim, LGBT, alum associations, there are a number of reps as well as staff and students, and every group has under grad and grad as well as faculty and staff reprisentatives
Our first meeting will be june 4th, at that meeting we will identify the specific goals and objectives so the groups can get started, 
The first meetings were to get to know eachother and expectations
The provhost asked for all of the deans to submit to him initiatives from 02-12 involving diversity
We want to
Look at whats in place
Whats no longer in existence
Effectiveness
Expansion
Build more collaboration across schools
Were using this document as a base line
What are the needs
What do we have in place
What are the gaps
That’s the infrastructure we have put in place
There was a forum we had on Saturday that I participated in with Provhost Lindsor and at that forum there was an opportunity for students to ask questions and just to get input and feedback, 
We are functioning as an advisory board to the president and provhost, we can make policy reccomendations and the cochairs are all participants on the board
I hop you all have a lot of questions for me
I should mention the best practices being used at other universities
Steven: considering that you had only handled faculty and grads previously, how do you think you will adapt to handeling potentially over 1000 students
DC: I am working closely with student affairs, this is something PTI mentioned on sat, they are in the process of restructuring, so there will be a new diversity position within that, there are services that are already existing within student affairs, my role is somewhat of a coordinator
Because there are efforts already in place, my role is to see how I can bring people together and how our university strategy is being met
DC: one other important thing, if you havnt read it, you should look at the white paper. It is being used by all the working groups to guide the work that we are doing. 
Aaron: as with all consils that get started it is a slow process, what is a very likely time frame for people to see tangible results from tis counsil
DC: I am asking for each of the working groups to answer what they think it is important to accomplish, there are long medium and short term projects. 
A lot of the work can be done independently of the counsil and we will do those things
Sarah: what do you see as ASG’s role?
DC: Haley stevens is serving on all of the working groups and is a member of the diversity counsil, we are in touch regularly, if there is something that ASG can do to support the counsil then ASG will be notified through Haley, and she can come ask for support
DC: by all means, if any of you every have a questions, feel free to give me a call or send me an e-mail
Ani: great, we will move into the SAFC elections
Girish: I will be very brief summary, we a re the group of ASG that allocated funds to the 40 or so A status groups. Qualities that I think are important:
Passion for groups
Time
Critical thinking skills
Experience with SOFO
I would like to open nominations, there are four open positions
Account execs advise three or four student groups, and help guide these groups. 
Ani: 4 non senator spots
Bidel: I have to leave for an exam: I have been on the board for a year, a few qualities, I have been heavily involved, I will be a senior industrial engineer, I have had a great time working with student groups, I am aware of the process. Next year anything that comes up, I will be a senior, I have to leave. Are there any quick questions, 
I am the captain of the NU quittich team
SCNO
ISA/NCSA
I have been involved and held significant leadership positions, 
Ani: okay were going to move into regular procedure:
Bill Craiger: econ stats, finance committee for A nad O attentaticve to detail I know what works and doesn’t work in student groups, trasurer of the frat, sofo certified. I would be a good asset to SAFC and student groups
Max Hogan: freshman, street team emmeber of A and O, productions and development committee, DR committee, we worked with the beenficiarry, SAE, pledge class president, assistant recruitment chair, passion and dedication to those activities
Amirt: sophomore transfer economic and math, NU as a whole is a pretty entrepenurial committee, the groups is something that I love. President of money think, more minor roles on campus, writer for NBR, grasp of NU campus, I applied to be a PA, class of 2016, SAFC is the next great way to work, I want to be able to coordinate and bring together A status group, give back to the entrepreurial culture
Sarah Green: Poli sci major, most of my time is spent with my sorority, member of the pre law frat on campus, a bunch of different things from a wide variety of areas, you have to be able to connect to a bunch of different interests, I always knew I wanted to be a part of ASG
Jason: I am Jason freshman bio med, I know I wanted to join ASG, I thought the Student Life was like student groups but I was wrong, I havea  strong interests in finding groups and grow them, I have experience I was treasurer of my high school student govt
Nebeu: sophomore studying sociology and econ, I was rteasurer of an A status group as my 3rd week as a freshman, I realize the importance of having a helpful AE, and funding those pit falls, since I was lucky to have an helpful AE as ASA’s treasurer
Serene Darwish: econ major, MCSA exec, NUCHR logistics and finance, grad school engineers, I help improve their English. Putting on good quality programming and dealing with the beaurocracy and be a resource for groups
Elliot Lazar: freshman industrial enginnerr, exec for frat, Mayfest, Finance, brief experience, brief internship at investment, passionate about student life and involvement, I see this at as a great opportunity to do this. That’s about it I am passionate about and exited about the opportunity to work on SAFC
Taylor: freshman, I want to apologize for being late, I am interested in this position because I would like to work in banking, I am a math major pursuing a finance in Kellog, I like working with numbers and budget, I was talking to Girish the other day, one of the main things about being on the SAFC is building a relationship with clubs. I understand new clubs and what they need to help them succeed, next year I will be a CA and I was selected for that because of my ability to establish relationships
Tom: sophomore in Weinberg studying econ and poli sci, I love the NU club community, social char of CSA, we throw a lot of big events with other clubs on campus, I am not stranger to throuwing events, I know ow the budget works, I have been involved in a bunch of other things, campus catylus for Globmed, lots of numbers and qualitative analysis, I was the treasurer for the biggest debate team in the country, I have experience with finance, I worked for a botique consulting firm, I am doing campus catylus, I think next quarter
Question and answer: please don’t ask personal questions, 
Mark: its great you have relationships with student groups, the SAFC has to make objective decisioons due to policy and you will find yourself arguing against groups that you like. 
Bill, I don’t want my money spent on people that don’t deserve it
Max: from being involved on a diverse group I have learned to love them individually and I am excited to get to know them and bring the mentality that each is unique and bring that mentality
Amrit: being able to tell a group that they don’t get the money they deserve, we have to be the people that determine where the money goes based on objective standards, even when it comes to telling a friend they cant get the money, while maintaining personal relationships
X: it’s a large responcibilities, it wont be difficult, you will be attending these events and see how they run and how they are responcible, if you do have a bias towards a group, you should think about before
Jason: it is easy to stay objective, I am not involved with the a status groups, having experience from sitting on the committee you can build relationships with the budgets you are advising, you can see where they are using the money most efficiently
Nebeo: the SAFC guildleines are clear for funding increase or decreasae, for them to secure their funding, if they are clear here is no reason not to be objective
X: my bias is towards the students and that they are getting the most for their money
Elliot: I don’t have my own interests in mind I am thinking about the NU community, I am going to listen to the SAFC handbook and do my job and do what is in the best interest for student Life
Taylor: I think the first reason to remain objective, I am honest, if they cant get more money than being objective is what we have to do. I am running for this because I want to dedicate myself to this group and that means being objective
Tom: I don’t think there is a conflct of interests, if you are doing what youre supposed to do. If they are running good events they get more increasae. 
Jane: fo all of you, would you raise you hand if you are involved with an A status groups that receives funding
Girish: for those of you, do you have plans to take on a leadership position in an A status group
Max: No, just an A and o committee
Amrit: No, im a part of ISBE which is not A status but were not ASG affiliated
Sarah: no, not as of now, I am trying to find my true passion and I think it could be here!
Jason: No
Nebeo: I was treasurer and president of an a status group, but I am don with that
Siri: committee, not president or treasurer
Elliot: committee, 
Taylor: the club I started is not recognized yet, as of next year, I will not be 
Tom: eventually I plan on becoming president of CSA and I think this will help me to do that, 
Bill: no 
OJ: the guidelines are great but when we review our guidelines, when do you think is an appropriate time to break the rules
Amrit: they should be made as a committee as a whole, it would require a group decision
Sarah: I am involved in Chicago area mentoring program, we take students that don’t have a high college opportunity, when a club s fantastic and small and has an opportunity to be better then you can break the rules
Jason: allowing other students to get involved, the role of student groups on campus is to include, if the finance is inhbiting that then they should get money
Nebeo: there are times when groups make mistakes, the last thing you want to do is leave a group crippled finantially, you have to look at the situation and break the rules
X: if bending them is to maximize the quality of the event
Elliot: when a group is in need of the support of the SAFC and the only way we can do that is by pushing the guidelines, our job is to maintain the student life at Nu and ensure thtat the student have the opportunity 
Taylor: I had prepared the same answere as serene if it is for the betterment of the group of NU and as the committee as a whole
Tom: I think the guidelines are strict but fair, the entire committee would have to come to the conclusion as a whole. Or if a club is in dire need of help
Bill: guidelines are important but if the choice is between best possible programming
X: groups don’t stay they same they get bigger smaller, fluidity
Motoki: how often are you on g-mail g chat, how available are you
Sarah: I am on it a lot
Jason: I think the worst is when people don’t email you back
Nebeo: as of last quarter: I am pretty available
Serene: I am a prompt responder
Elliot: very good at responding
Taylor: tech addict, always have my phone
Tom: check my email first thing in the morning
Bill: gmail addict
Max: all the time, it shows up on my phone 
Amrit: on gmail always and facebook more and all emails within 24 hours
Girish: 8 seconds or less most important quality
Jason: passion
Nebeo: clarity and whats expected
Serene: genuine interest, it shouldn’t be a burden
Elliot: empathy, 
Taylor: building a stronger relationship to serve as liaison
Tom: responsible
Bill: effective advisor and 
Hogan: dedication to job
Amrit: interested, dedicated, organized
Sarah: enthusiastic, devoted
Ani: Moving to Senator elections for SAFC while votes are being counted for non-Senators. 
Harsh: Junior, studies physics and premed, Bob gov treasurer, ASG senator for SASA, treasurer for SASA, wanted to be involved in SAFC last year but had conflict with treasurer
Andrew: Rep for Bob-Muccoloch, caller for Phone-a-thon, econ and LOC major, has been an org treasurer in the past, wants to learn more about ASG and student groups
John: Represents IFC, freshman, econ and poli sci, was treasurer of high school in 4 different orgs, 
Kevin: Sophomore, econ major, as dealt with a lot of money before, 
Ani: Moving to question period for Senator seats
Derrick Suen: If you have to choose between guidelines and supporting your group what do you do
Harsh: We all have different roles but we have to support the guidelines. 
Andrew: Stick to the guidelines because they set precedent but it is important to look at particular issues. If we want to bend rules we should talk to groups and explain. Fairness
John: I’m a fiscal conservative so theres that. What it comes down to is fairness to groups, we need to not play favorites and must manage everyone’s money. 
Kevin: Guidelines are there for a reason. You have to meet certain expectations. You can be flexible in certain circumstances.
What do you think are the most important characteristics
John: a thorough understanding of the rules: constant contact with the groups to provide steady advise
X: constant contact maintain dedication
X: genuine interest, organized, timely, responding to emails so they are aware of deadlines
X: dedicated and objective, learn about the groups, objective about the groups. 
Ian: favorite event put on by an A status groups
Kevin: I have been pretty involved iin school, and as treasurer, I am looking to get more involved, there was dillo day last year
Honsh: I am biased because I was on SASA exec and in the show, but I think it really demonstrates our community
Andrew: herman cain
John: I would have to agree, herman cain 
Girish: why do you want to be on SAFC
 Honsh: to share student experience
Andrew: more involved
John: play to my strengths
Kevin: skill sets and prior experiences, helping student groups to succeed. 
(Endorsements)
David: once again, in our continuing effort to increase the legitimacy of senate, are we comfortable with the fact tahat haf of us are not here during the delegation of the SAF. I ask that you might motion this to old business for the simple reason that you vote on this tonight
Mark: it get ambiguous with substitutes, if I have a sub that comes in that cannot vote, 
David: the code deals with that differently, i sponcered the legislation that if you’re a substitute you cannot vote
That is not covered in the scope of this bill
I think that would be a good amendment say that you cant have a sub without an excused absence 
Mark: no I mean that you have the sub a week ahead, then it would be acceptable to vote. 
Patrick: to clarify you would also have to be here the week before with you sub
David: I know that seems like a lot but guys, 1.4 million dollars
Motoki: so the bill requires that ANYBODY who has to vote has to be here the week before and for those who week the week before and cant vote,
David: you would not be brought to rules unless you miss the funding session itself, I am just drawing an arbitrary line but if you want to amend it, that would be fine with me, 
This is placing sanctions on yourself, if you want to make that tougher that’s fine
This is to increase legitimacy
Tori: motion to make this old business
Ian: point of inquiry: could we see this as old business next week?
David: we could but I see no reason to delay it. 
Patrick: we haven’t amended it, we have to do that once its old business, 
Brad: what david is trying to do is eliminate stress from a packed agenda, 
David: it would be silly to discuss this with professionals in the room when there is no need to discuss this with constituents
Ian: we don’t need to waste a half hour voting on amendments now when we can do it in 2 minutes next week
Patrick: we have all made up our minds on this lets vote
Alex: what would be a penalty for missing a session
David: it is up to the rules committee to decide
If you simply missed funding for reasons you cant explain, I think that’s grounds for expulsion, but if you have a reasonable case, you can just do some extra publicity or service to compensate. 
Its not my decision
Sarah: do you think it is important to set the precedence that funding is more important than other senates?
David: I think if you want to amend it to make this the case for all senates, but I think that 1.4 million dollars is more important, but 26 out of 51?! Common guys
Motoki: what constitutes as excused absence:
Brandon: I am pretty liberal, but studying doesn’t usually constitute as one. 
David: and if we find out youre lying that’s like BOOM! (shotgun action)
Mark: motion to amend: added after disciplinary review: 
(seconded)
this is the question I imposed to david, you cant have an alternate the week of, you must have the forsight to have an alternate in the week before, it is not as strict as it could be
David: let the records reflect it is a friendly amendment!
X: so if I have an alternate come the week before and then to rules, they could still deem it as unexcused
Mark: it could still be unexcused 
Mark: if you don’t have the foresight to have an alternate, 
Mark: I would like to rescend the amendment
PRO
CON: Motoki: I think over the past year and a half we have made a lot of canges in the code that would make funding way more of an important meeting in senate, because we have so many rules going into it, I think the absences are from those rules, why would I sit through the meeting I cant vote in, I think instead of adding more rules would be pointless. We need to look at the rules we already have. WE already have retention problems
PRO: david, I just disagree, if a senator wont take the 7 figure responcibility seriously, I don’t want them in the room, and I don’t want to retain them. Funding is something everyone understands, if yyou are not willing to participate I find that unacceptable and I would be comfortable if they don’t comprehend that
Steven: to go on that, I think its really important that we stress this to the max, and I think it’s a shame. It’s a significant thing, I think it is more of an incentive to make sure you show up a year before
TOri: the SAFC spends 40 hours making these decisions, the fact we ask senators to come in for 3 hours when we dedicate so much is so fair
CON: Ian: I will agree that there is a problem, but I do not think this is the way to address it, this demands a closer review and I have no problem re addressing this in the fall, we want to make sure we change our rule, 
Motion to postpone indefinitely
Jane: how many absences from the last funding were excused or unexcused, 
For A status: 6 excused 5 unexcused and 2 with half

David: I don’t think that puts a bearing on the bill. 
Ani: in line for a pro con to postpone indefinately:
Motoki: there is a lot we need to re look into, I don’t think we should be rushing to vote this in and we can, 
CON: david: if were gonna vote it down, vote it down, 
PRO: Ian: we like the principle, we want to postpone it to edit it to something that better suits what we are trying to achieve, 
We can call this bill up at any time, and at any time senate can vote at any time to bring it up as old business. 
Con: david: I think this is totally lame, the argument that we should postpone this iswe shouldn’t use voting as an introductory procedure, we should use our orientation as if I were to make fun of ASG I would 
PRO: steven, we have a lot of other stuff to do tonight, its already past nine thirty, we are going to have to extend time to get through old business. 
CON: abby: I don’t think new senators understand how important this is, I don’t see a point voting in the fall
(inline to vote on the bill as a whole)
(bill defeated)
Ani: conflict free campus: did you guys know, this is called the the Milton H Wilson Campus
Alex and Melanie: co presidents of stand, and anti genocide coalition and dedicated to overcoming genicide. The deadliest conflict currently, in the Congo. 
There have been over 5.4 million deaths in 20 years. Were talking about the highest rates of sexual violence that the world has ever seen. 
Every single one of our electronic products, they all are used minerals that are mined in the Congo, tantilum, tin and tungsten, gold, is used to cote the wiring, these end up in our phones
Armed groups are fighting to control the mines. 
Minerals are smuggled and shipped to smelters around the world
Local Congolese, and others agree that we need to reform this process to fix this problem
As college kids: we are consumers of these companies, American electronics companies sit at the top of these supply chains that start deep in the minds of the congos, we want to push for legitimate mining there. 
Motorola has already begun investing in the congo
NU as an institution has major pull with these companies, we can pass a conflict free resolution that would require the university to observe the companies they buy electronics from. 
We are in front of ASG to pledge the student body to this cause. A greater consciousness of our own impact
X: how many companies produce without conflict free minerals
Melanie: Motorola is not completely conflict free but they have gone the furthest, there is one very small company
Sarah: so is what youre saying that NU wants more research to be done to get conflict free products?
Alex: we want the admin to say something, at Stanford they passed a proxy company, at duke they have more of a statement to say that they don’t support conflict tech
we want northwestern to say if there is a company that would makes this conflict free tech, we will buy it. 
(old business)
(passes)
Brandon: code review, just to give a quick run through
A lot of minor things, 
A provision that exec must attend senate
Same standard for exec as senators. They can be impeached.
PR requirement has been extended to exec
Parliamentarian calls role at attendance
Parliamentarian maintains a calendar
Treasurer assisting the PR VP after SAF funded events
All these things should have been codified before. 
(Passes)
(motion to extend senate by ½ hour) 10 pm. 
X: there is a lack of gender neutral bathrooms and transgender individuals have serious reservations about using gender specific bathrooms, 
he feels uncomfortable in women’s bathrooms but he presents more feminine than people who are biologically male, 
we would like to see more help from the university
they are adding 3 to tech but that is not enough, they havnt said anything about what is going to happen in Norris, in kresge, gender appropriate available and convenient. It is a lack on campus, I would love to see this passed. 
X: I am curious about the logistics of adding bathrooms:
X: just looking at harris and kresge, harris was just renovated, it is almost a complete reconstruction of kresge, they are going to be replacing the plumming anyways, for something like Norris or the library, it is trickier, but at the same time we cant let logistics get in the way of principle, if we say it is logistically too difficult. We would like to see the show of support from ASG
Victor: is there anything else you would like us to do that this mandates. 
X: not persay, I don’t know how many of you are aware, we have a petition, I can ask ani to send it around with the announcements, it is an invisible issue, that transgender rights are overlooked. Don’t get complacent, keep talking don’t let the university forget about it
Brad: motion to move this to old business:
Ani: all in favor of moving this to old business
(passed)
(PQ)
(passed)
Ani: diversity committee legislation
Brad: senate passed during winter quarter, in the wake of incidents on campus, create a sustainable committee in the future, it will be overseen by Student life, if it is passed we have an application to send out for an associate vp. 
Haley: so far we are working with NU for diversity now
I have been working with donna
NU diversity counsil
Working with Bergie on respect NU
We set up our goals for the year
We want to work on student groups
X: this is the commission? And then there is a counsil too?
Brad: yes, this is entirely students, students who are in ASG sit on the other commission but that is coincidence
Motoki: what is the need for making this a committee
Haley: this isnt an issue that is going away, this is a means to institutionalize it. In the future if there are incidents, we want to be able to support them
Brad: before it was just floating around, now it is put within a position in ASG and hold them accountable
Sarah: I am curious as to where the assistant vp fits within the structure. 
Brad: they are not sitting in on exec, there are other committees that have director committees, I think this person meets with SLVP 
The reason they are associate VP not director, with think it is an important position and it sends the right message to the student body. 
Jane: how will this position report to alex if he has no say as to who is in the committee
Brad: the SLVP the EVP and the director of the coalition of colors helps to elect this person and he regulates and attends meetings. 
Motoki: are there any road blocks that you have encountered as an ad hoc committee, 
Haley: we think preemptively this will help
Jane: does she become a member of the SLVP or is she separate
Brad: they can sit in 
Motoki: how is the power balanced? Do we have any accountability to the chair of the coalition of colors?
Brad: the original bill had them in and we wanted to respect senates decision to do that
(PQ)
(passed)
Ani: increasing election transparency: 
Steven: it was tabled, I wont re hash it, you know what it is, it coedifies a practice that has occurred for years but this shines a light on the matter. Basically there has been a practice where people who consider running for these roles meet with admin to build an idea of what campus is like however, you are not allowed to have campaigning prior to the campaign period, so I would like for candidates to declare to an election committee and that that is the reason they would like to meet with them, this doesn’t do much that is new, it just clarifies and ensures that there is no misunderstanding, 
X: does the commission exist in winter quarter
Steven: what this would do is ensure that the commission exists in the beginning of the winter quarter. 
This same ruling would apply to the rules
David: do you think this adds pressure far earlier than is the norm, 
Steven: it may but I think ultimately for the sake of everyone who wants to run. You don’t have to declare, preparation should be clear
Brad: and you can withdraw
Alex matelski: is there an earliest time that you can declare?
(Debate period)
CON: Ani: I think this adds a lot of pressure and distraction, we are not supposed to worry about this, if this goes and is submitted to ASG, its public, the media would get it, the attention would be on the race and not the governing, the stakes are elevated for no reason. 
David: I understand the principle, and I know that Victor and Brad were meeting with people intending to run
Running is an arms race. 
PRO: I am making a pro, I understand where ani and david are coming from but I think it also solves a lot, victor and I had our first meeting in the beginning of November. The rules are incredibly vague and the way they are written right now, you cant say you are running but we said we are considering or we are planning. At that time it was at the speakers discretion before the commission was formed. 
Steven: the fact that we had to go to one person who had ultimate discretion over all the rules. Would have more attention on us be bad?
CON: david: its not drawing attention to the productive things were doing, its drawing attention to the unproductive things were doing. I really don’t think legitimizing an earlier start to the campaign is the right way to go, I want to reitereate that elections are an arms race
Steven, I know you hadn’t finialized your plans until later in the process and I think if people had know that you victor and brad started in November and you started later it would have harmed you and I think in practice this wont be an effective change
PRO: Ian, meeting with student leaders, I think this is a spectacular idea, anyone who is paying attention will know who is running, if anyone in this room who cares to know what is going on, will know. The same things would happen but this is more on record, especially for people who do not know how to run for office, 
Steven: I would say that I am open to other possibilities and that’s what this is for, but the majority of people who ran for positions are supporting this bill
Victor: it seems like the concern that people have is distracting from the governance of the student body? There is a PR issue?
Steven: we have a PR issue and we always have, if we can get that, whats the problem on having a lot of attention on us
CON: Ani: when you announce, you are calling attention to what will be done rather than what is being done. Right before the election, we passed an amendment to the guidelines those regulations are already happening, pres and VP are entitles to the privacy to explore options
If my friends saw that ASG elections are coming up, what have you guys done yet?
Motoki: as someone on the commission, we didn’t see pre campaigning as a problem so this doesn’t seem necessary. 
PRO: Mark: there is nowhere that says that they have to declare, it would just be sent to the commission, 
Brad: the daily couldn’t write an article if the commission cant verify. 
Steven: this is something, its not a candidacy declaration
Sarah: everything that david and ani had mentioned, I think we have to think about the difference between our intention and what will happen, if you are telling student group leaders that they are running, 
Ani: I think if something is sent to the rules committee, it is open record, I have worked for the daily and I know how they write articles, if its an official ASG document, that’s news, 
(PQ)
(bill fails)
Steven: Campaign cutback, basically, just trying to consolidate some of the time we spend on campaigns, in the past we could go door to door and were not allowed to do that anymore, that is a significant amount of time that is now spent on chalking. Some say that it went a bit to long and now I agree. I am just going to put this on the table. 
X: you said that candidates cant come into residential colleges, 
Ian: the rule is there is no door to door solicitation allowed but they can come into munchies
Steven: I am open to suggestions
PRO: Ian: if there is one thing that comes out of this campaign period, the amount of work I put into that campaign, my academics suffered, I was upset with the amount of time I had to put into this. The main things you are going to need to do, this can all be done within a week, there is no need to drag it on for so long
Tori: the campaign takes away from other programming that is occurring on campus. It clogged fb it clogged the ground, I would say as a student I hated it. 
CON: abby, I do realize it sucks for candidates, but I think we are losing sights of what it is for, the student body pays attention to those days and I think it is important that the student body is heard
Motoki: once you cut from 10 days to 7 you are limiting the amount of time we have for debates we didn’t have time to work around the schedules from these guys, you are going to have to schedule a debate the day after they declare for candidacy. 
PRO: steven: its great that we had an increase in voting but that also comes with a decrease in what we are allowed to do. A lot of facebook and chalking turn out, yielded more votes than door to door. 
CON: sarah: I want to say that during the election something I enjoyed was hearing people debating the candidates and caring about what was happening and it took time for people to understand where they stood on the issues, I don’t want to loose the people who care about what is going on
Brad: I agree with steven and ian that it is a burden on grades, however I think we have a duty to the student body to give them as much information as possible. We had to sent campaign managers to speak for us
Mark: motion to amend: I motion to extend the length of campaigning to 31 days… it was a joke. 
Motoki: (postpone indefinitely)
(PQ)
(defeated)
Amendment rescinded: 
ANi: original bill, 
Brad: new sustainability committee
X: is there a reson why we cant have this out as a working group to see how it goes?
Brad: we have had that in the past, 
Mark: like diversity, sustainability is not going anywhere
(bill passed)
Brad: working groups on alc policy and culture: we have a forum coming up, we want to do some more research, the committee will include several different leading group representatives as well as 2 senators
Patrick: how long will it take to elect those two senators. 
Brad: not pertinent
PRO: whats great is that we are trying to reach out to all living spaces, with the admin pushing for more upperclassman housing, this is wonderful RCB supports it and has people lined up to support it
(PQ)
(passed)
In line to elect:
·      Alex Matelski (RHA) – sophomore and RHA senator, in a fraternity
·      Jeremy Koszela (Greek) – sophomore and IFC senator, president of a fraternity, RWB
·      Dave Richards (Greek) – sophomore and IFC senator, in a fraternity
·      Tori Zuzelo (Student Groups) – junior in a sorority,
·      Noah Kane (Greek)– freshman, looking to get more involved, judicial board of Phi Delt
·      Sarah Brock (Greek) – Greek caucus whip and social chair of DG, well versed on issue of alcohol, RWB
???: What is the responsible action protocol?
Jeremy – Lack of clarity on RAP
Dave – RAP is a bad policy
Tori – shift away from punishment and towards counseling
Noah – RAP is a bad policy, forces students to make choice between punishment and safety
Sarah – call for help, stay with person – administration takes this into account but does not guarantee amnesty and this policy does not apply to student groups
Alex – part of NEMO, presents RAP to students, good Samaritan policy
Alex Van Atta: A lot of the work will need to be done over the summer, will you be available?
Sarah, Noah – studying abroad, everyone else is staying on-campus

Ian Coley: How do you incorporate the non-Greek perspective?
Tori – can bring non-Greek perspective via circles of non-Greek friends, involved with new beer garden for Dillo Day
Noah – understands the difference between Greek culture and dorm/non-Greek culture
Sarah – dorm culture is a big issue, wants to pay attention to that
Alex – just joined Greek life this year as a sophomore, have a strong friend group in ASB and is DR co-chair for DM
Jeremy – lived in a dorm freshman year, involved with calls in dorms, have Greek background to supplement
Dave – this isn’t just a Greek issue, lived in dorm freshman year, understands how alcohol policy affects res life





