ASG Senate Minutes
11-28-12

I. General Order - Julie Payne-Kirchmeier
	•	Julie: Hope you guys enjoyed Frontera! What improvements can we make for Frontera? Please fill out comment cards, but let me know of things that might not go on a comment card
	•	Hannah: Clarify spiciness level of dishes please
	•	Sofia: Line needs to be better organized so that traffic isn’t obstructed
	•	Person: Wasn't that great as far as authentic Mexican food goes. Ingredients weren't as fresh and the food was overcooked
	•	Angela: Didn't taste any mango in my mango drink… better ingredients?
	•	Alex Lower: Free refills?
	•	Katie: Thought everyone working there was super helpful and great
	•	Mike: Liked the chips- not too salty for me!
	•	Aaron: Maybe let people bring in their own containers for drinks, like Norbucks?
	•	Jane: Further back in the line, things got less efficient.
	•	Rebecca: Ok now, but in 2 or 3 years, might seem really expensive for students?
	•	Julie: Made sure to negotiate with Frontera to not raise prices above O'Hare levels, will be working on this as things go forward.
	•	Senator: Utilizing points and meal plans to pay for this?
	•	Senator: the fact that all the materials are compostable should be better advertised.
	•	Julie: Let me know if you have any other comments!

II. Executive Board Reports
	•	Girish: Thanks for the smoothest funding ever!
	•	Ethan: Been working on the ASG website, deadlines have been pushed back, but end result will hopefully be something really great. Also looking to give better, electronic solution for IM sign-ups
	•	Motoki (question): when will website be ready?
	•	Ethan: releasing in phases, look out for the first one this weekend?
	•	Ani: Any other questions about what's in the exec board reports? Email me with other questions!
 
Later…
 
	•	Steven: Brothel law looking like it'll be changed- progress should be made by the end of the year.
	•	Alex: Working with JPK to keep a late night option open in Sargent- please come to it to get talks going for another 24 hour space.
	•	David H: This Wednesday we'll be having a food truck festival- 15% of the proceeds will support cats care and hurricane sandy relief
	•	Also wanted to update progress on taxi-cab share program so that students can match up to split the costs of a cab
	•	Will be going through a mock-up for a study-abroad guide next week
	•	Carly: Thanks for filling out the Senator survey- look forward to a senator spotlight next week. Please email me if you have any recommendations for this position. Will also be going to RHA's exec board meeting  to talk about getting Senators on their dorm's executive board meetings.
	•	Neil: NU has entered into a partnership to offer online courses- very helpful for students off campus or for students looking to explore
	•	Lauren: Granted status to 3 student groups, Comedy Forum (B), Multicultural Filmaker's Collective, and another group.
	•	Victor: Cats Care raised over $1000, please bring cash to buy t-shirts
	•	Brad: We'll be holding an all ASG wrap up next week instead of caucus. Will send out more info.
	•	DSTA submission deadline is this Friday
	•	10K Initiative submissions are at around 400
	•	Candlelight vigil for Alyssa Weaver tomorrow night
	•	Ani: Been working with the dorm conditions working group to schedule walk-throughs of dorms. Will be taking pictures and notes to improve on short term fixes.

III. General Order: SAFC Elections
	•	Girish: SAFC allocates 1.2 million of SAF, but also work as Account Executives to oversee any money allocated. Really want to make it an advisory role for groups. 5 hrs a week commitment, 20-30 hrs during funding weeks.
	•	Girish: Will open the floor for nominations, give speeches, recommendations, vote, etc.
	•	Paul (question): are we doing preferential voting?
	•	Ani: Couldn't work out how to do it with 3 positions for a board well enough to utilize it.
	•	Girish: When the time comes, I plan to motion to suspend the rules and revert back to the old system of voting, just for now.
	•	Motoki (question): So are we considering majorities?
	•	Ani: Well we… just… no. We'll talk about this more going forward with Ian...
	•	Ani: Opening the floor for nominations of non-senators for SAFC
	•	Senator: I nominate Amrit
	•	Amrit: I accept
	•	X: I nominate Jason Arnold
	•	Jason: I accept
	•	Girish: I nominate Phillip Halsted
	•	Phillip: I accept
	•	X: I nominate Siddiq
	•	Siddiq: I accept
	•	X: I nominate Faique
	•	Faique: I accept
	•	Girish: I nominate Melody
	•	Melody: I accept
	•	Ani: Introduce yourselves- name, major and why you want to be on the SAFC.
	•	Amrit: I'm an Econ/Math major. I'm on the board right now, running for reelection. I've been on for a quarter and have gotten to know the board. We just had one of our most successful supplementary funding cycles ever. Members of the SAFC should bring diversity to the board and I think I do. I think you guys can give me an opportunity to serve for another year
	•	Jason: I'm a BME major, I was appointed in the spring- I have the experience of being on the board for a quarter, really passionate about student groups. Really want to be able to help student groups
	•	Phillip: I'm econ/psych double major. Have experience in this field, though haven't been on the board before , but have experience since my parents work with accounting stuff. Captain of debate team in HS and member of NU debate, my experience
	•	Siddiq: One of the older AE's- been through the supplementary funding cycle and the spring funding cycle. Worked with a lot of groups of all types. It's a huge time commitment, but it's great to work with so many groups and would love to bring that advisory role to the board
	•	Faique: Haven't really joined any other leadership experiences, really want to devote my time to this. Part of project ARK to give bracelets to people- has given me lots of experience. Have communication skills from these projects- also have experience from HS, not sure if that's relevant anymore… as a freshman, have lots of time to commit to the position.
	•	Melody: I'm a freshmen as an econ/political science major. I'm reliable, dedicated and creative. Being a freshman could be a disadvantage, but I could be a benefit by providing new perspective to committee. I also have a MENU/stats background and was a treasurer for my HS's MUN, where I got experience - really want to be on the board to know more NU student leaders and help student groups. Really love planning events and organizing activities.
	•	Ani: Opening the floor for questions
	•	Tori: What do you perceive to be the most important responsibility of an AE?
	•	Amrit: Getting to know your groups really well and put on the best events possible and making sure groups get the help they need
	•	Jason: Working with student groups is most important and being a resource to them. We want to encourage groups to work together through the SAFC
	•	Phillip: Have to be there with the groups and need to be very responsible with our allocations to ensure they're fair
	•	Siddiq: Being amiable and open- many groups might not ask for info if they're not comfortable, be open and encouraging.
	•	Faique: Make sure funding's being used properly and really it's about communication with the groups
	•	Melody: With a limited budget, we need to maximize the activities groups put on for groups to be successful.
	•	Amanda: Other time commitments?
	•	Jason: I have school, obviously, but also have GlobeMed, both of which aren't huge time commitments
	•	Phillip: Just NU debate and with only 2 tournaments, should have time to commit to the position
	•	Siddiq: Slam Society might be only other commitment, been on SAFC for a while, and I've been able to manage it.
	•	Faique: Lots of time to dedicate to groups since I haven't joined other activities
	•	Melody: Only have 3 courses technically, so have plenty of free time to commit
	•	Amrit: Been to every SAFC meeting, but also a member of ISBE and work at NUIT. I can balance it all
	•	Jane: Are any of you currently affiliated with any groups SAFC works with?
	•	Melody: Don't think so
	•	Faique:
	•	Siddiq:
	•	Phillip: Don't, and want to use the position to get to know the groups.
	•	Jason: No direct involvement, though I do still go to events.
	•	Amrit: no connections to those groups… probably.
	•	Girish: What do you see as the biggest challenge facing students groups and how can ASG/SAFC address it?
	•	Faique: Hard to address because I'm a freshman, but can give more direction to groups.
	•	Siddiq: Lot of student groups- when groups collaborate, they learn things about each other, so I would encourage that
	•	Phillip: would want to help more with recognition and the process that groups go through to achieve it
	•	Jason: want to bring a more diverse crowd to student group events, benefits the whole community
	•	Amrit: Information exists, but letting groups know about this info. Working on things like wildcat connection and letting students know about groups that align with their interests
	•	Melody: Funding is a big problem. SAFC only serves top groups, other groups are left out
	•	Motoki: Last time you were logged onto gchat?
	•	Ani: Gonna rephrase that- general electronic availability?
	•	Siddiq: I own a cell phone… laptop has email open, will hear notification, usually find out where student groups chill and help them there. Can also get a pager
	•	Phillip: Have a cell phone, check email after every class and always checking on stuff
	•	Jason: We're all pretty accessible. I try to work with CSA to arrange meeting times conveniently and forward on if I can't answer it
	•	Amrit: have an iphone + snapchat
	•	Melody: I have cell phone, laptop and I stay up late
	•	Faique: Stay on gmail too much- check facebook a lot
	•	Alex Lower: Motion to end question period
	•	Ani: Moving into a discussion/endorsement period.
	•	X: Amrit is my AE, he's super organized and responsible, he always keeps me on track. He's super personable and consistent
	•	X: Support Amrit, Jason, Siddiq- they've done a great job. Siddiq has been on for a long time which is important. The other two newer members have learned a lot and gained experience from going through a funding cycle
	•	X (question): how much turnover is appropriate?
	•	Girish: Turnover isn't valuable in and of itself, experience is most important
	•	X: Want to endorse Jason. Best person I've worked with- responds to my emails within 10 minutes and signs stuff within a day. Got things done for me- he keeps me on my toes. He does so much stuff, and he's super knowledgeable.
	•	X: Want to endorse Siddiq- he encourages everyone around him to go to student group events. He fosters a sense of community
	•	X: Want to endorse Phillip- objectively, he brings professionalism and passion to the position.
	•	X: Want to endorse Siddiq, Faique & Jason- Siddiq is really personable and great at being hands-on with groups. Faique has excitement of a freshman pivotal to getting involved with SAFC. Jason's answers were great though I don't know him.
	•	X: Want to endorse Siddiq, he's the most friendly person I know at NU and he's very passionate about ASG.
	•	X: Speak on behalf of Jason- his answers demonstrated professionalism and commitment to student groups
	•	X: First want to speak on behalf of Amrit. He deserves a full year since he was elected already by Senate. He's been very visible when I have questions. Melody and Faique had a lot of merit in their answers. Siddiq is someone I worked with and he is very committed to confidentiality and faithfulness.
	•	X: Want to endorse Faique and Siddiq- Faique founded the ARK group he mentioned- great at lots of things. Siddiq is an amazing person and good candidate
	•	X: Faique's position as a freshman gives him time to really be a part of the board. He's also really open
	•	Girish: Motion to suspend the rules and move back to non-preferential voting
	•	Vote- approved. Plurality voting reinstated.
	•	Ani: Let it be known that Mike Morgan is a Senator
	•	May circle as many confidences as you want, but only three preferences. Don't need to include last names - no conflicting first names.
	•	Ani: We're now going to move to SAFC Senator elections! Three spots for anyone who has ever served as a Senator or who is currently a Senator
	•	Alex: I nominate Lydia Gao
	•	Lydia: I accept.
	•	X: I nominate Tori
	•	Tori: I accept.
	•	Siddiq: I nominate William
	•	William: I accept.
	•	X: I nominate Sean
	•	Sean: I accept.
	•	X: I nominate Sofia
	•	Sofia: I accept.
	•	Ani: Nominations are now closed for Senator election, moving to introductions and question period
	•	Lydia: Junior, wants to help student groups to grow by helping to provide them with the funds they need.  Northwestern needs more sense of community.  Can be created through student groups.  Solid background in finance - plans on a career in finance.  Reads WSG.  Internships at securities firms.  SAFC invests in projects efficiently in order to generate the maximum return.
	•	Tori: Junior, been on the board since spring of 2011.  Saw SAFC as the best opportunity to work with student groups across campus.  Encouraging co-sponsorships.  Learned the guidelines, a lot of rules to know.  It's less about finance and more about knowing how to deal with SOFO.  Liaison between all that and making sure that the groups put on the best events they can.
	•	William: Junior, been on the board for a year.  Didn't know what SAFC was- like to make difference at Northwestern, great experience to be a part of that and want to rejoin SAFC to make it better
	•	Sean: RTVF/Econ major, want to put my skills to use- incredible use to student groups. Really want to get involved. There do need to be strict guidelines, but with some measure of fluidity. I love working as a liaison and developing external relationships.
	•	Sofia: Bio/Global studies major. Never lived on campus, there's never enough attention paid to the student leaders on this campus for the resources they make available. My background supplements the position since a lot goes into planning an event and attending meetings. I've worked with administration and higher-ups
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Girish: Other Commitments?
	•	Lydia: not involved with other exec boards, but attend the events of various groups. Have a lot of time on my hands, will focus much of my attention on SAFC.
	•	Tori: Currently a Senator and involved with A&O, CASE and TriDelt. May seem like a lot, but I haven't missed a SAFC meeting. I understand what's needed of an AE through this experience, no conflict of interest.
	•	Willian: Just involved with ISBE, have lots of time.
	•	Sean: Actively involved with my fraternity, in A&O, on dean's advisory council- all of these positions let me be a liaison to groups and gives me that experience.
	•	Sofia: On two ASG communities, but I enjoy doing them. It's like my social life.
	•	Alex Lower: Work or club experience that's relevant to being a SAFC AE?
	•	Tori: Had to produce a concert- have relationships with CSI and administration. Been through multiple funding cycles. CASE has let me work with lots of different types of groups
	•	William: VP of Phi Alpha Delta, VP of my hall, gave me experience with seeing problems and ways to address them within organizations.
	•	Sean: I'm a liaison for Dance Marathon, correspondent for my fraternity and a member of the SoC advisory council… also on A&O. Learned to develop relationships between groups and finding the division between the professional and personal relationships.
	•	Sofia: Serve on a McSA, serves as liaison to SASA and PARS- lets me see the differences in programming. Lets me see spectrum of groups and ideas.
	•	Lydia: Worked closely with ASG freshman year. Worked with Claire Lew. Was also on the Crew team. Past experiences have taught me to listen to those I work with
	•	Girish: Biggest problem or challenge to student groups that SAFC/ASG can address?
	•	William: Dealing with SOFO- lots of opportunities to reform the system
	•	Sean: Would say the same thing- hearing about SAFC through various channels has allowed me to see a lot of problems with the SAFC- like transparency, for example. I would be as transparent as possible
	•	Sofia: Lots of issues- basic ones and more advanced ones, like when to hold events that we should all acknowledge
	•	Lydia: Publicity- lots of students hear about events after the fact. We can help marketing and publicity efforts. Maybe we can improve wildcat connection
	•	Tori: Miscommunication between AE's and advisors- both are telling people two different things. You also lose the institutional knowledge as people graduate and that information needs to be preserved.
	•	Ani: Moving into the recommendation/endorsement period
	•	X: Want to endorse Sofia- she has a valuable type of experience in working with groups.
	•	X: Also want to endorse Sofia- I've known her as a community member. She's badass and asks the best questions. She's been invaluable and wants to help everybody and getting answers from both sides of every debate
	•	X: Want to endorse Sean and Lydia- Sean's answers were good and Lydia was one of the first people in ASG to come forward to me with a grievance. Also, I know she worked with a professional company and she has a great background with student groups.
	•	X: Would like to endorse Sofia and Tori- Sofia's very active in everything's she's involved in. Tori's fantastic as always. Sean was also impressive
	•	X: Endorse Sofia- she's great at producing effective collaborations. Tori has done a great job with all of our events and she's been great.
	•	X: Endorse Sofia- worked with her, she's one of the ones talking the most and has a big passion for the position and making sure students are active.
	•	X: Want to endorse Tori and Sofia- Tori's previous experience and her answers were extraordinary. I've worked with Sofia. She has a serious care about student groups at Northwestern.
	•	X: Want to endorse Sean, he loves Northwestern more than most- seems like a natural role for him.
	•	X: Want to endorse Lydia- she's a hard worker and devotes herself to whatever she takes on
	•	X: Tori and William's experience is invaluable- Sean and Sofia's answers were great. Don't go off of finance experience
	•	X: Want to endorse Tori- she's been great, she's been great, does no wrong, etc…
	•	X: Want to endorse Tori and William. We'll have a really young board and need experienced members like them,
	•	X: Want to endorse William, he's a valuable member of the board
	•	X: Want to endorse Tori and Sofia- both bring valuable things to the table
	•	X: Want to echo Tori's sentiments. William has had tough groups and got through it. Both are invaluable
	•	X: Would also like to endorse Tori. Sofia is also great, opposite of apathy
	•	Ani: Question period closed.  We are not doing preferential voting, as before.  Fill in three preferences. 
	•	Ani: We're going to move on to new business:  B-status funding recommendations

IV. New Business: B-Status Funding Recommendations
	•	Lauren:  Not much to introduce.  You all have the funding recommendations in the agenda.  B status groups apply quarterly.  Look them all over and then next week the groups can come in to petition for additional funds.  Email me if you have any questions/concerns.  We allocated approximately $10,000.  Not many groups applied this quarter.  Please send me humorous money quotes.
	•	Alex:  Can we ask questions about specific line items?
	•	Lauren: Yes.  Email me.  Please read over the recommendations before next week.  We deal with so much more money than the SAFC.  Ha ha.  Bitterness.

V. General Order: CampusVoice Demonstration
	•	Ani: Brad will present this once he gets back from the dinner- way to submit issues from the student body
 
Later…
 
	•	Brad: talked about this during campaign as a means to connect students with those who can address their problems. Very robust interface- we're just demoing the software, not asking for funding. Connectivity with facebook…
	•	Brad: Questions?
	•	Rebecca: How much does this software cost and for how long will we be able to use it?
	•	$500 as a lifetime purchase
	•	Ian H: What would be the domain name?
	•	Campusvoice.northwestern.edu
	•	Motoki: Launch date?
	•	First day of winter quarter
	•	Motoki: sustainability for the future?
	•	Ethan: I'll be maintaining and passing on this info
	•	Nalin: Publicity plans?
	•	Brad: No details on that yet, but we'll start winter quarter
	•	Sofia: Can you submit an idea about anything? Way to organize it?
	•	Brad: can search for tags, labels, divide by resolved and unresolved.

VI. New Business: SL1213-14: Service & Community Engagement Grant Amendment
	•	Ani:  With that we're going to move into New Business:  Service and Community Engagement Grant Amendment.
	•	Chris:  Someone brought it up to me that the deadline was a point of contention.  Remember it’s a $500 grant put on for public work in Evanston.  January 1st was the original deadline, but it doesn't leave much time because of the 10K initiative and other things going on.  So we're asking to move the deadline to Feb. 1.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Alex: Is it okay that this cuts down on the time for decisions on which application is chosen?
	•	Chris: They'll still have a month to go through the applications.  This is probably plenty.
	•	X:  Motion to close question period. 
	•	Vote- approved. Question period ended.
	•	Mike:  Motion to move to old business. 
	•	Vote- approved. Legislation is now old business.
	•	X: Motion to previous question.
	•	Vote- approved. Legislation is passed.

VII. New Business: SL1213-15: Increasing Election Transparency
	•	Steven: Introduced this previously, thought it would be good previously. Opinions have changed, so we're bringing it back up. Meeting with people is a form of campaigning- this needs to be clarified. No rules or regulations to regulate this very gray area. Want to make the rules clear. Important going forward with elections over the next few months.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Corrine: Wasn’t this brought up previously...?
	•	Steven: Yeah, but I feel as if there’s been significant enough change in the composition of Senate to warrant hearing this again.
	•	Rebecca: how would this affect campus media?
	•	Steven: We need to amend this so that it reflects that candidates can't announce to media. It's not meant to start messaging early, only to make sure everything is fair.
	•	Alex: Window of time for announcing candidacy?
	•	Steven: as it stands beginning of winter quarter… but that's not true. Rules committee serves as EX when there is none.
	•	Mike: Is this so that everyone knows who's running earlier?
	•	Steven: Will allow those who are considering running to declare what they're doing. Not for giving people early advertising.
	•	Rebecca: Would this help other candidates outside of ASG
	•	Steven: Ideally, we'll put this on our website and this will let people know what they need to do and let them know they need to declare their intentions to run.
	•	Motoki: Won't this publicity take away from what we do here by creating a winter campaign season
	•	Steven: it's gonna happen no matter what and we have a right to know. It'll help us keep our own numbers accountable.  Also, people won't freak out about articles published about this.
	•	Rebecca: the quarter might be lost to craziness about elections
	•	Steven: I understand that possibility-  yet where will the Daily be getting this information from? It's possible those who candidates meet with will pass this along, but we can solve that.
	•	Noah: How public are the meetings?
	•	Steven: Daily isn't a tabloid, wouldn't go crazy over this
	•	McKenzie: this isn't something the Daily would cover.
	•	Motoki: Wouldn't ambiguity…
	•	Steven: want to make it so that any meetings are seen for what they are- just meetings for candidacy so that we can be clear.
	•	Alex Lower: How binding is this declaration of intent to run
	•	Steven: Not binding, just declaring interest.
	•	Ani: This is new business, we’ll hear it as old business next week

VIII. Good of the Order and Announcements
	•	Motoki: 6:30 Saturday PMA and SAI are having a fall recital at Alice Millar
	•	Sarah: DG hosting Anchor Bowl on Deering Meadow
	•	Katie: Hosting TFA event tomorrow, 6-7:30 in Louis Room. NCDC also having event in Francis Searle
	•	Sarah: Mega-Shabbat  wanted to open ASG table in January/winter
	•	Evan: NU water polo team is having a match this weekend at SPAC
	•	Steven: This Friday, Protest magazine is releasing their first issue of the year and next Wednesday, we're co-sponsoring a panel on affirmative action
	•	David H: Project cookie has launched Project Cookie presence- can send to friends or anonymous lovers- or as a gift for a holiday next month
	•	Also a DM heroes event- great chance to see the beneficiaries of the money you're raising
	•	Ciara: This Saturday is national aids awareness day, will have events this weekend

Senate Adjourned
