Senate 10-01-14

	•	Call to Order and Roll Call
	•	Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
	•	The minutes were approved. 
	•	Executive Board Reports
	•	General Order: Welcome Back! 
	•	General Order: Wild Ideas Fund
	•	Serene: The 10K Initiative and the Project pool we are going to have the Wild Ideas funds. The idea is that it should be pretty fast and not much red tape to access this money, which is unusual. You all approved this in the budget last spring and we decided to have a separate committee to look over submissions. The committee would be composed of the EVP, Vice President for Student Activities, SARC, one representative from SAFC, one from SGC, and two from campus. . The idea wouldn’t be you don’t get money if you don’t have a SOFO account, but rather look at what the student group needs and whether it’s feasible. 
	•	Alex: Students don’t have to be affiliated with a group, but if they have a cool idea, we want to be able to support that. Currently, our funding model does not allow for that flexibility. This is hopefully an infrastructure that will allow us to do that more efficiently and the committee will be there to help students with logistical issues and making sure the event happens. 
	•	Serene: There would be two representatives from SARC that will be able to help out. THe EVP with also be on the committee to oversee the nitty gritty parts and maintain accountability. 
	•	Alex: The SGC and - will be there 
	•	Serene: Funding requests would be submitted on a rolling basis and we’ll try to reduce overprogramming. 
	•	Erik: These ideas are supposed to help out the community in some way - fill a gap, be accessible to everyone. It is really supposed to promote new things. 
	•	Alex D.: How will we avoid the problem of giving more money in the fall and less in the spring when it is drying up? 
	•	Serene: That won’t necessarily be a problem because we know when the A and B status groups are happening and will take that timing into an account. It will be less of an issue because of that. We want to give out more money for quarters with less programming. 
	•	Alex: We want to set money aside quarterly, so that should help also. 
	•	Wendy: Are there restrictions for how many people can apply and how much they apply for? 
	•	Serene: Case by case, so there is no limit. 
	•	Alex: But we will also be able to ask groups to lower their amounts after submitting their proposal. 
	•	Korri: Since this is encouraging new fresh ideas, is there going to be committee that they go through first? 
	•	Serene: The wild ideas committee. 
	•	Kenny: Is this a combo of the Project Pool and the 10K? 
	•	Serene: That was just the wording I chose. 
	•	Kenny: Groups used to use the pool for supplementary funding, but this seems like it is for non-student groups. How do we know groups won’t just switch over?
	•	Serene: It will be by a case by case basis, but we’ll be watching it very closely. It’s not just for non-student groups though, because it is also open to their new events. 
	•	Alex: We want to build in some kind of ASG accountability measure. 
	•	Bella: Will Senate approve the ideas? 
	•	Serene: That’s why we are talking about this today! But we do want to minimize the red tape, because it is supposed to be spontaneous. 
	•	Alex: For the contracting process, advance time is helpful. We want this to be able to happen quickly, but to involve Senate in the process.  
	•	Moira: Is there a plan for how we are going to advertise so all students know? 
	•	Serene: I’ve already been in contact with Jaime and we are going to have a full campaign. It will be the first thing on the ASG Website as well. 
	•	Alex: It’s already in our fliers in residential halls, also. 
	•	Julia: We are taking a similar strategy from the 10K. 
	•	Serene: Anything funded through the Wild Ideas Fund will have to mark it that way. 
	•	Moira: If we didn’t have to have all of the Senate approve all projects, maybe there should be a weekly presentation from the committee. So everyone knows what is being approved and we can discuss it if there is an issue. 
	•	Nick: Have you thought about looping in RHA, RCB, PHA, IFC, etc.? Have you thought about collaborating or looping in their process?
	•	Serene: I guess this is an additional source with a lot more money. We can talk about them in terms of funding and making students aware of all the ways they can get funding. 
	•	Erik: This is a bit different in that we are encouraging individuals and most things that go through those organizations is sponsorships and we are less likely to do that. 
	•	General Order: Senate and ASG Recruitment
	•	Noah: Now we are going to do a recruitment exercise. Log onto your facebook and twitter. There are different pages and hashtags to use, so use them! You probably posted a cat gif this morning and it probably did worse for your facebook that posting this status. Go ahead and do that now! If it makes you feel better, you can tag me in it. 
	•	Jaimie: Tweet! I want to retweet you. I’m begging to retweet you. 
	•	Noah: You can follow @Star_Noah. 
	•	General Order: Plan for Next Week
	•	Noah: Next week there will be new senators by next week. One of the things I want to do is make the atmosphere more inclusive. I would appreciate if we could reduce barriers to participation: introduce yourself to new faces and spread out and leave in between spaces. I’ll remind you to say your name and who you represent, also to speak slowly and avoid acronyms. The only acceptable acronym is ASG. That is really all I have there. If you live in a Res Hall or Community, make an effort to reach out to students. They have until October 3rd at midnight to get their petitions signed. 
	•	Good of the Order & Announcements
	•	Roll Call and Adjournment
