ASG Senate Minutes
01-16-13

	•	General Order: JiveHealth Presentation
	•	Ani: Want to start off with presentation from Dennis from JiveHealth
	•	Dennis: Please type in the link on the flyer I've provided- we're creating an iPhone game to encourage kids to eat healthier. Many companies have come together to end childhood obesity with this challenge. It's a Facebook voting contest, top 3 go to Washington DC. It'd be great for us and NU
	•	Ani: We'll send the link out by email after Senate as well.
	•	Executive Board Reports
	•	Neil: Residential Life Academic Summit- a few other exec members were there, was a discussion of the optimal and ideal picture of what a residential housing system should look like. Was broad forum, let us articulate ideas, no matter how vague.
	•	Also, apply for faculty-student interaction grants! Great opportunity if you're interested.
	•	David: Scheduled the next food truck festival for February 2nd, benefitting Dance Marathon. Connected to DM Top Chef- 15% of proceeds will go to DM.
	•	Book swap is getting revamped- restyling it to get in line with other ASG Services
	•	Cab Share app will be coming in next couple weeks
	•	Shout out to Michael and Chris for spearheading a new collaborative project that creates system to sell
	•	Carly: Lots of responses for Operations Director- look forward to more updates- also meeting with RHA this Tuesday. Also want to welcome Eric Morales and Connor Regan as our two newest  Senators!
	•	David C: Getting things ready for Eva Jefferson Day- is a national day of service. Annually brings in 70 kids to campus- combining this with our day of service. Pick up flyers  at the end of senate to advertise it and please participate
	•	Ethan: HEY EVERYBODY!! The website is not online, campus voice updates distracted me- get your constituents to use it!
	•	Becca: Winter Activities Fair is next week from 1-4, please pick up some flyers for it to distribute to your constituents
	•	Ani: Remember the PR requirement and to give Becca your information so she can note you down as having your PR requirement completed for the quarter
	•	Steven: Housing Fair on February 19th!
	•	Ani: Glad to see an almost full house tonight!
	•	New Business: SL1213-18: Computer Chargers for Rent
	•	Aaron: Hey everyone, I'm Aaron, I was a Senator previously and this is something that I worked on and am working to expand now with this legislation. I've met with Alice, who is head of the Library Circulation desk, and she says the chargers have been a huge success and was a great opportunity to expand resources in the library. Though there has been a success, she let me know that there is demand for more chargers.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Ian: Can you come back with more numbers/information about the chargers?
	•	Aaron: I have that information- busiest time during Reading/Finals week, can only see how many times it's been used. There's been a huge demand
	•	Motoki: Any expansion toward windows users?
	•	Aaron: Mac chargers give more bang for buck- most accessible to students. Getting chargers for pcs might be the next step
	•	Abby: Have students requested non-mac chargers?
	•	Aaron: Didn't come up in my meeting with library admin, but I can check
	•	Alex: Why are these chargers so expensive?
	•	Aaron: Chargers are $79.99, don't want to buy non-OEM chargers
	•	Ciara: Any data on how many users on campus are mac users?
	•	Ethan: 50% are on Macs, 40% are on Windows, 7% use their iPhones. There definitely seems to be a majority of Mac users.
	•	Ciara: 40% is a lot
	•	Aaron: Agreed, but don't want to use up all of Senate's money and couldn't find better solution.
	•	Sofia: Thinkpad might be more common computer model to buy chargers for.
	•	Senator: How much money is left in the project pool?
	•	David C: around $7,000
	•	Mike: Can't we use late fees to cover the cost of this?
	•	Aaron: Late fees go to a different part of the budget currently, but can't be done at the moment.
	•	Kevin: At what point do we have too many chargers- 6 should cover it, right?
	•	Aaron: there is a point where you max out efficiency- but number in the library can probably reach up to 1,000 people  during reading/final week. Need to be able to evaluate how the chargers are used during such busy periods.
	•	Motoki: Are these only for main library?
	•	Aaron: Again, it's a pilot program, so we think main library gets most usage, might be possible to expand further down the road.
	•	Alex: Can we get ASG stickers on the chargers?
	•	Aaron: Shouldn't be a problem.
	•	Ethan: Point of information- NU Link shows 65% mac usage vs. 32% PC usage
	•	Ani: This is new business, it will be voted on next week as old business.
	•	New Business: SL1213-19: Campaign Reform Ad-hoc Committee
	•	Steven: We've talked a lot about this in Senate, so to avoid more talk in Senate… ad-hoc committee! Basically want to get the people who disagree about this together to talk this over and report back in February.
	•	Mark: Motion to move this old business
	•	Vote- passed. Legislation is now old business.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Motoki: How often would this ad-hoc meet?
	•	Steven: Probably no more than once a week- 5 good meetings should be sufficient between now and February.
	•	Mark: Could these changes go into this election cycle?
	•	Brandon: Depending on the size and scope of the changes proposed, possibly.
	•	Mark: We should add stipulations to protect against conflicts of interests.
	•	Steven: No official pairings yet… so can't really do that.
	•	April: What kind of research will be done…?
	•	Steven: Not about the candidates- would look at other schools with similar student governments and would see how they regulate campaigns and how we can improve our model.
	•	Dana: Do you anticipate this committee coming up with new ideas than previous initiatives?
	•	Steven: Yes, I hope so. I may want to push back elections to ensure that those who were against previous proposals can be a part of this. Don't want to waste anymore of Senate's time and help develop something new that does work.
	•	Neil: Who's not here that you'd want on the committee?
	•	Steven: Sarah and Rebecca
	•	Motoki: Is there a need to create an official committee?
	•	Steven: this provides a framework and legitimacy. You can't compel people to show up without this framework- and want to drive home the point that if you have objections about the campaign system and don't participate, your opinion shouldn't be counted.
	•	Harrison: What kind of problems would be tackled?
	•	Steven: No system for regulating campaigns and candidates before the campaign period. These people are meeting with student leaders now, but there's no transparency in this process- it's a very gray area with verbal campaigning. Candidates will make unofficial agreements about the rules of the game before the game. Turns it into a game of talking to stakeholders rather than reaching out to individual students
	•	Senator: Motion to extend question period by 5 minutes
	•	Vote- approved. Question period is extended by 5 minutes.
	•	Mike: Is there any kind of control  to prevent this group from meeting every year when the problems may be solved with this ad-hoc?
	•	Steven: Ad-hoc will end after proposal, won't be standing and won't set a precedent.
	•	Harrison: Why need for change now?
	•	Steven: Came about last year following the election. We all discussed the issues we faced in the campaign, attempts for improvement were shot down, trying to create a framework for real progress. Something has to change.
	•	Paul: Motion to table for one week since we aren't electing people tonight.
	•	Ian: Objection
	•	Ian: Withdrawn
	•	Motoki (question): Do you already have an idea of who you want on this committee?
	•	Steven: There are some people I have in mind and would appreciate joining, but it's up to them
	•	Mike: Would the members be elected a week after it's passed?
	•	Ani: Based on the bill as it's written now, they would be elected immediately.
	•	Henry: Can you ask the Senators if there are 3 who want to run for this right now?
	•	Ani: No, not in line.
	•	Motoki: Objection
	•	Motoki (con): We should pass this this week- no reason to postpone this. Let's just amend it so that elections happen next week.
	•	Henry: I agree, we can just have an election next week and avoid the same questions being asked.
	•	Paul: Motion withdrawn
	•	Henry: Motion to amend the legislation to reflect having the committee members elected next week.
	•	Paul: Motion to previous question on the amendment
	•	Vote- approved. Amendment is passed, committee members will be elected next week.
	•	David: Motion to previous question on the bill
	•	Vote- approved. Legislation is passed unanimously.
	•	Emergency Legislation: Supporting Sensible Gun Control
	•	Steven: Want to present legislation to support Obama's recent executive orders restricting gun control.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	David: What is your opinion on ASG taking a stance on national political issues?
	•	Ian: Not going to answer that.
	•	Nalin: Will anything come of this- what's the point?
	•	Steven: Resolutions don't prescribe action, but meant to be symbolic. Recent mass shootings have become very relevant .
	•	Harrison: Precedent for ASG writing legislation about national issues?
	•	Ani: Yes, there is precedent of such legislation being brought up- notable example is the iron dome missile defense system legislation, which got tabled.
	•	Ani: Moving into pro/con on hearing the bill.
	•	Jesse (con): Feel comfortable representing issues with the university, but not sure about representing them on political issues.
	•	David: Would advise against seeing this- I may personally agree with this strongly, but I don't know if this in line for us to vote on this as a body as there are people we represent that may feel completely differently.
	•	Steven (pro): Wanted to bring it up as emergency because it is particularly relevant right now. We are student government , we've taken positions on issues like these
	•	Harrison (con): Great discussion to have, but this executive order just came out today, need time to review the implications of this order before discussing it.
	•	Steven (pro): By making this emergency, it opens as new business. Need to look at this while it's still relevant and before student support wanes.
	•	Neil: should look at this now to set us up for a vote next week
	•	Paul: Are you saying that we should vote on it now that people aren't here?! Because that's incredibly underhanded and I think the opposite should be encouraged!
	•	Neil: No, no, I meant the opposite- don't want to vote on this now, just want to bring it up so it's ready for a vote next week
	•	Ani: Even if you misheard the comment, please be respectful.
	•	Senator: Motion to previous question
	•	Vote- division
	•	Ay- 12
	•	Nay- 18
	•	Abstentions- 7
	•	Vote- fails. Legislation is not heard.
	•	Good of the Order and Announcements
	•	Mark: Showerhead/CFL campaign ending this Friday- get your name in before it's over. Fraternity/Sorority houses will be getting these as well. Will also be bringing resolution next week, look out for that.
	•	David: Look at historical context of ASG looking at issues like that
	•	David: Go to DM trivia, have fun!
	•	Can also submit a block theme!
	•	Ethan: Fill out form to give information for the ASG website
	•	Katie: NCDC having winter volunteer fair in Northwestern Room
	•	Mike: Community Engagement Grant has been receiving submissions- ad-hoc will select these and we'll be having elections for that next Wednesday
	•	Steven: David's not here- should sign up for MLK/Eva Jefferson Day of Service, get to hang out with kids and be a good role model
	•	Ani: Join that selection committee! And Dr. Dunkle, head of CAPS, will be here next week to talk about expanding mental health resources on campus. Think about some questions. Please invite constituents who might be interested in coming

Senate Adjourned
