ASG Senate Minutes
02-06-13

	•	Executive Board Reports
	•	Brad: There are a couple links to Campus Voice in my exec board report, look at them. Try to keep track of the projects that get posted. If there's something you want to work on that gets posted, let me know. I can get you in touch with the right people. Also let me know if you have projects outside of Campus Voice. Also contact me if you want to take on a larger role in ASG next year
	•	Victor: Working on a campus wide music video- please submit ideas about what you want this to look like, we'll be starting shooting in the Spring. Also planning a leadership symposium for May 2nd. Buy a Cats Care shirt!
	•	Steven: If all things are approved, we'll be able to work with the Center for Civic Engagement, but we won't have help for getting volunteers for working registration booths- great for PR requirement, more people the better
	•	David H: A lot of projects are at the 99% mark, expect to see progress soon. We'll be introducing a soft launch for Book Swap, going to ask that you guys submit before we fully launch.
	•	Cab Corner: Taxi-share app- it's complete! Need to add branding and sign a contract, but should be ready for the end of the quarter airport cycle.
	•	Norris Mini-Course Enhancements: Won't be complete change, just improvements mainly? Would anyone want to take a mini-course on Arabic…? Making enhancements
	•	Study Abroad Guide: Please send it out to people who've studied abroad ASAP. Reach out to people you've already sent it to
	•	Neil: Don't have much, just please give feedback on things in my exec board report.
	•	David C: New ASG printer! Let me know about code problems.
	•	Alex: Had a meeting with Connor and SSDP- talked about expanding red watch band training and increasing drug education.
	•	Connor: Not everything in this is concrete- want to expand or incentivize red watch band training to make campus safer. Looking at having all Senators red watch band trained. Also thinking about student groups to gauge interest if it'd be something that certain groups would be interested in doing.
	•	Alex: Feel free to ask me about anything student life related!
	•	Carly: Student Group Senator applications are live, due on the 23rd, please forward over your listservs. Also feel free to speak with me about taking on a larger leadership position in ASG going forward. Also, please respond to OMs if they reach out to you. We'll be doing breakout sessions next week about how to improve. As far as Senator Spotlight goes, want to recognize Rebecca for being a leader last week! Also want to welcome our two newest Senators, Alexander and Andrew!
	•	Alexander: Off-campus Senator, Marine veteran, glad to be here!
	•	Andrew (Andy): Glad to be here. I'm a freshman from Naperville, and I represent RHA district 8!
	•	Ani: You're required to meet with me, so if you haven't signed up for a time, I'll be emailing you. As Carly said, FVP and SGVP apps are out, due date has been pushed back to the 17th. Make sure to fill out SGAC apps if you wish to retain your seat, and feel free to apply for a seat if you're a group that doesn't currently have one.
	•	Ethan: HEY EVERYBODY!! ASG ONLINE IS ONLINE!!! Please fill out the Senator info form- let me know if there's anything you guys want to see on here.
	•	David: Can you talk about the features and enhancements that will be rolling out?
	•	Ethan: Calendar support for all the exec board members and the general calendars. Also a page on all of our services, including things like JobCat and student group websites, listserv integration, student group funding information, etc. Also, my sister is doing a research study in SESP and needs help finding people
	•	Special Order: Garage Sale Feedback
	•	Chris: Hey everyone, been working on the idea of a campus-wide garage sale to be held in the last week of May, first week of June so that they have a place to sell stuff before moving, but having trouble coming up with a date. Was planning on doing it on June 1st, but that's the day after Dillo Day…
	•	Tori: Won't there be a problem that people will still want to use their furniture before selling it
	•	Mike: Thinking about a way to categorize it using images and PCs.
	•	Ian: What's the utility of having a day to do this when you can have this digital?
	•	Mike: Can still sell smaller furniture, and want to not make this totally digital
	•	Rebecca: Is it a known problem that people can't sell or buy things?
	•	Mike: The idea is to advertise through city of Evanston and have them buy furniture- sometimes when you're moving you just end up throwing things away that you don't have time to store or sell.
	•	David: To address a couple of the concerns- we are reconsidering things like having it online currently and the debate is ongoing- having it in person might be more effective than older initiatives like NU Bodega. We haven't looked at analytics, but this is one of those things that is anecdotally very sensible. Having Evanston and Chicago citizens as a supplemental demographic could be helpful
	•	Mark: This has been very successful for other schools
	•	Mike: We'll be advertising this heavily
	•	Tori: Have you thought about integrating the furniture sale into Wildcat Pad?
	•	David: Not really an option for a number of reasons that we can discuss later. Those of you who are really interested in this, please reach out to me, Mike and Chris. We'd love your feedback, though a lot of these are longer conversations
	•	Ani: Any other comments on the date specifically?
	•	Ian: End of Reading Week?
	•	Mike: Also thinking about Memorial Day Weekend, or last Sunday before finals
	•	Old Business: SR1213-09: Brady Scholars Senior Project: Hoop House
	•	Ani: Due to a miscommunication, the authors aren't here.
	•	Mark: Motion to table for a week
	•	Vote- passed unanimously. Legislation will be tabled for a week.
	•	Appendix A: SR1213-XX: Celebrating President Ronald Reagan’s 102nd Birthday
	•	Rebecca: I always celebrate President’s birthdays, and Ronald Reagan is one of my favorite Presidents! It’s his 102nd birthday and I just want to pass a resolution celebrating his birthday. Sorry for bringing this up as emergency, I’m embarrassed to say I didn’t know until today that it was his birthday.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Mark: How do you personally celebrate President's birthdays?
	•	Rebecca: Acknowledge them and their accomplishments, have a cupcake if they're really special.
	•	Jesse: How is this different from celebrating a Presidents birthday on Presidents Day?
	•	Rebecca: Presidents do individual things that don't get recognized then- if someone wants to acknowledge an individual President's birthday, they should.
	•	McKenzie: What would ASG be doing to celebrate this?
	•	Rebecca: Nothing, it's just a resolution to celebrate his birthday. US legislature does this all the time.
	•	Sarah: Should we be presenting legislation for every president's birthday?
	•	Rebecca: Maybe- our collective favorite presidents would probably only encompass a handful of them. 
	•	Paul: William Henry Harrison's birthday is in a few days- would you be amenable to adding a line about him into this?
	•	Rebecca: Sure.
	•	Mike: Also, Chelsea Clinton's Birthday in a few days….
	•	Rebecca: We're just talking about presidents here.
	•	April: What has Reagan done to benefit us as Senators?
	•	Rebecca: Don't want to get into partisan issues.
	•	Mike: If I voted for this, would you make me Reagan cupcakes?
	•	Ani: Not in line.
	•	Alex: Reagan was President of his student government when he was in college!
	•	Senator: Motion to previous question
	•	Senator: Withdrawn
	•	Ani: Moving to pro/con on whether or not to bring this to the floor
	•	Sarah (con): The spirit of this bill is great and it's nice not to talk about something less serious, though we have to consider how we look discussing something like this
	•	Carly (con): Fun to talk about, but the Senator Survey, around 25% of you said Senate was too long and another 17% said you didn't respect each other's times
	•	Petros (pro): Clearly within the bounds of a parliamentary body to bring things like this to the floor. It takes a very short time to decide things and we shouldn't be considering how long Senate takes in whether or not to hear this
	•	Steven (pro): It's still early, and it is his birthday. Let's just hear it.
	•	Ian (con): this could've gone through rules, his birthday is well known, this is not emergency. He's had 101 birthdays before, this is just embarrassing
	•	Alex (con): Just got through passing legislation on gun control and divestment, it'll look bad if it gets out that we're wrestling with issues that are important, but not pertinent
	•	Rebecca(pro): There's a reason I'm doing this today- it's a short Senate. This doesn't tarnish our reputation- we do a lot of real things but we can also have fun.
	•	Katie (point of parliamentary order): Can we go over rules of order as far as interrupting other Senators and talking over others goes?
	•	Ani: Yes, good point. Everyone, please be respectful and don't interrupt those who are speaking
	•	Ani: Moving to a vote on hearing this
	•	Vote- division
	•	Ay- 11
	•	Nay- 29
	•	Abstentions- 0
	•	Vote- fails.  Legislation is not heard.
	•	General Order: Ad-hoc Committee on Firearm Regulation Election
	•	Ani: Opening the floor for nominations.
	•	Abby: I nominate Emily Schraudenbach.
	•	Emily: I accept.
	•	McKenzie: I nominate Petros.
	•	Petros: I accept.
	•	Neil: I nominate Steven.
	•	Ani: Steven is the chair.
	•	Ian: I nominate Brad.
	•	Brad: I accept.
	•	Brad: I nominate Rebecca.
	•	Rebecca: I respectfully decline.
	•	I nominate Mike Morgan.
	•	Mike: I accept.
	•	Harrison: I nominate Joshua Crowder.
	•	Joshua: I accept.
	•	Steven: I nominate Ian Coley.
	•	Steven: I respectfully decline.
	•	David H: I nominate either of the two new Senators.
	•	Andy: I accept.
	•	Andrew: I accept.
	•	Ian: Motion to close nomination period.
	•	Ani: Please come up and introduce yourselves and talk a little bit about why you want to be on ad hoc.
	•	Emily: I'm interested in a lot of majors, and I'm a sophomore on student life- this legislation really interested me and I was thrilled about the entire thing and definitely want to get involved
	•	Petros: I'm bio/secondary education, I represent Plex, and I've talked a lot about this in classes and I feel this issue is really underdressed
	•	Brad: I'm a Senior in Journalism and Political Science, Executive Vice President for ASG- I think this is a really important issue that's generally seen as partisan.
	•	Mike: I'm majoring in environmental sciences and something else. I feel passionate about gun control and was a sponsor on the bill
	•	Joshua: I'm a freshman, majoring in musical composition. I became interesting in this issue because I grew up in a very gun-active city in Kentucky and have that perspective.
	•	Alexander: I'm a Junior in Weinberg, a military veteran and a gun owner. This is something I've heard about and been involved with and I'd love to work with how this gets handled.
	•	Andy: I'm new to Senate and want to get more involved. I feel that this is an important issue to discuss.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Motoki: Can you go over the timeline again for this ad hoc?
	•	Ani: They'll report back every 2 weeks, as stated in the legislation.
	•	Mark: How do you view the relationship between gun violence and higher education and how are students important in this debate?
	•	Emily: I found it exciting that this resolution passed. The number of incidents with college campuses and gun violence is increasing and I want to be involved.
	•	Petros: Gun violence on campuses in increasing, I can see that at NIU and other schools across Chicago. It's devastating and it's our responsibility to respect safety for ourselves and future students.
	•	Brad: Agree with all that's been said- the increased incidence of gun violence is shocking, it's important for ASG to be proactive rather than reactive.
	•	Mike: Within the past 10 years, some of the worst incidents of gun violence have occurred. We do need to work toward encouraging the government to decrease gun violence.
	•	Joshua: This is more relevant to us as citizens, than as students.
	•	Alexander: It's important for us as future leaders to discuss and work with issues like this.
	•	Andy: The college student perspective is important to hear, we don't usually hear from college students about issues like this.
	•	Steven: Considering the timeline of outreach and letter writing, do you think you'll have adequate time to commit?
	•	Petros: My current commitments are ending, I'll have time to commit.
	•	Brad: My life is basically ASG, so yes.
	•	Mike: Every hour of my life is blocked out, other candidates might be able to better devote time.
	•	Joshua: No committees, I can devote time.
	•	Alexander: No committees, other commitments, but would have time.
	•	Andy: No committees, other commitments, but would have time.
	•	Emily: I’d have time.
	•	Patrick: What is Northwestern's role and how can we take action?
	•	Brad: NU should be a leader in everything it does, it doesn't always, but this would be great at affecting the conversation and taking a stand.
	•	Mike: I have very liberal beliefs on gun control but realize there are other perspectives and that we need to write this in an appropriate manner.
	•	Joshua: We have no responsibility to speak out on this as students, but we do have a responsibility to talk about as citizens.
	•	Alexander: I oppose gun control, that may not make me popular, but can help produce something that reflects the views of all Northwestern students.
	•	Andy: We're at a top university that produces leaders, so we have to take leadership on this.
	•	Emily: NU can be risk averse to the point of being complacent- if we send something to congress, it'd be huge for people our age.
	•	Petros: This is about caring about a certain issue pertinent to us as students at this university, but also do it in a way that's as least biased as possible. Hope to consider points of NRA and other perspectives on the other side of this.
	•	Evan: What unique perspective can you bring to this process?
	•	Mike: My perspective is very liberal-I'm well versed in issues like this.
	•	Josh: I come from a gun active community in Kentucky and am a gun owner.
	•	Alexander: I'm a gun owner and could be considered conservative, but wouldn't want to skew the views of the committee. Also huge on constitutional law.
	•	Andy: I generally have republican views, but mostly support gun control.
	•	Emily: I'm currently studying to be a law intern. I'm also a woman. Also on NUCHR, which focused on peacekeeping this past year.
	•	Petros: My views on gun control lean slightly left, but as a future educator I hope to advocate for protecting students everywhere. Also considers it important to bring forth perspective about mental health.
	•	Brad: My experience having working in DC is valuable.
	•	Mark: Motion to extend question period by 10 minutes
	•	Ian: How will you strike a balance between advocating for Northwestern and working with other partner institutions?
	•	Joshua: We should consult the entire student body before moving forward. It's very important that we embody the voice of the student body.
	•	Alexander: The more consensus we have, the better off we are.
	•	Andy: As stated, it's important to have a unified stance on the issue, would use Senatorship to this end.
	•	Emily: Tough- want to get the ball rolling on this, but open to having the conversation.
	•	Petros: Want to echo what everyone else has said so far, but need to act soon before support flutters.
	•	Brad: When working in DC, could see how quickly letters got thrown out, but can see how to avoid that by working with the language when drafting this with other universities.
	•	Mike: As ASG, we do represent the voice of the students. I do this as an off-campus caucus member. This specific letter can serve as a model to other universities.
	•	Mark: Can you articulate the opposing viewpoint for gun control?
	•	Alexander: My own personal views don't match up with NU students. Assault weapons are weapons of war- there's a position to be had that civilians shouldn't be trusted to have control of that lethality. Also, background checks are an argument- I don't necessarily oppose that.
	•	Andy: Opposing viewpoint is that the right to bear arms is constitutionally founded, but don't agree that citizens should be able to buy automatic weapons among those lines.
	•	Emily: Also talking about right to bear arms and the constitution. Deals with rights seen as intrinsic by some.
	•	Petros: Opposing viewpoints state that anything that gets in the way of the right to bear arms and any further legislation on it would be constitutionally doubtful.
	•	Brad: Do believe in the importance of second amendment, but don't believe it's an unconditional right.
	•	Mike: Not within the perspective that the 2nd amendment.
	•	Joshua: The opposite viewpoint of my perspective is that with more lethal forms of firearms, greater restrictions should be instated.
	•	Ian H: Motion to end question period
	•	Ani: We're actually out of time!
	•	Moving into an endorsement period
	•	X: X and I were chatting about this- I strongly agree that this should be filled with newer, less involved people so that they can engage on a different kind of issue. All candidates are qualified and articulate.
	•	X: Want to endorse Emily- she's one of the most thoughtful individuals I've met- she's poised and articulate and would be great for this.
	•	X: Want to endorse Alexander- knowing him for 2 days, he is very articulate in giving his perspective while encapsulating others.
	•	X: Would like to make two endorsements for Alexander and Brad
	•	X: Brad did this in DC, very important experience to have on this committee.
	•	X: Want to endorse Petros since he's worked with children in Chicago
	•	X: Want to endorse Josh, he was extremely articulate, and being from an area with guns, his perspective seems invaluable.
	•	X: Going to push Brad too- good to have younger members get involved, but also need a veteran voice- don't discount him just because he's already involved.
	•	X: I think that we do have to take into consideration how much time people have to contribute. Brad might not have time to do the full side of the work.
	•	X: I don't think Brad would've signed up for this committee if he didn't have time.
	•	X: Want to echo the points about Brad. I really respect him as a leader, but the places on this committee are better given to other members on ASG- he'll lend his perspective whether he's on it or not.
	•	X: I know Emily is very invested in this, she has a very good viewpoint and is open to listen to others.
	•	X: Disagree with X, just because they're a new face doesn't mean they should get involved. Should join a standing committee rather than something overly specific like this.
	•	Ani: Votes will be counted following Senate and the announcement of winners will be sent out later tonight.
	•	Good of the Order & Announcements
	•	Rebecca: ASB apps are out, apply!
	•	Ian H: PA apps are live, open until the 18th
	•	Angela: Celebrasia is this Saturday, held by CSA and TASC.
	•	Sarah: Tomorrow is DG lounge- in the DG kitchen, we'll be serving grilled cheese and tater tots, support us!
	•	Paul: Brief update on gender neutral bathrooms working group. Most schools seem to be where we are or ahead of us
	•	Mark: Make sure to distribute our petition. And GREEN CUP, reduce your energy and come to some of the events!
	•	David H: DM trivia starts in 18 minutes, this week's topic is sports
	•	Mike: Part of off-campus ambassadors- having a contest where you can post picture of food you've made. Also a dodgeball tournament. Also talk to me more about the garage sale.

Senate Adjourned
