ASG Senate Minutes
04-03-13

I. Executive Board Reports
	•	Victor: Student Affairs have asked me to create a list of student achievements, will be compiling that within the next few weeks- let me know if you have input. I talked to the person in charge of the speaker selection process for graduation- Morty controls it, but looking to get more student input into the process
	•	Brad: 10K is ending later this week, look out for more news on that.
	•	Alex: Confirmed Haley Hinkle- now have a new shuttle stop! Definitely read my exec board report and let me know if you want to work in any specific areas.
	•	Neil: Added questions to CTECs regarding learning outcomes, want to create culture shift in teaching about learning outcomes. Read my exec board report.
	•	Siddiq: Finished guideline review.
	•	Neel: Released apps for SGC- we have some Senator spots, it's the best committee, so consider running.
	•	David: Cab Corner- thanks to those who used it, we got 200 students to use it and hope to increase that number. The company has other insights and data that will help going into the future. BookSwap- please post your books if you haven't already, please use it! Please help with PR and tabling
	•	Sarah: Will there ever be books listed on the website that aren't there for current classes?
	•	Ethan: HEY EVERYBODY! We have old textbooks from every quarter this year in our database- you can search by class or by the title of the book- we indicate by each book whether it's required or just recommended. One feature we'll be introducing is expiring posts so that students who have graduated have their book listings removed. Check it out!
	•	Brad: Update on community relations- the alderman elections are on April 9th, early voting is open right now, so you can go to city hall now through Saturday to vote. If you are a resident of the first ward, please vote! ASG is non-partisan, however, as residents of Evanston you are all welcome to tell your friends who to vote for.
	•	Carly: If you are interested in being a mentor for a new Senator, let me know. We also have some openings on the operations committee, so let me know if you're interested. New Senators, please stand up and introduce yourselves! We'll also be enforcing the PR requirement more heavily.
	•	Karley: Hi, I'm representing FMO.
	•	Adam: Hi, I'm Adam and I'll be serving as the new Senator representing College Democrats and Political Union.
	•	Annas: I'm serving as the interim Science Senator, representing SPS, UCC, and BSA
	•	Andrew: I'm Andrew and I'm serving as the new College Republicans Senator.
	•	Olu: I'm Olu and I'll be representing ASA.
	•	Mark: Talked with the head of sustainability at Microsoft, will be communicating with her about making larger institutions more sustainable. Wrapped up the CFL and showerhead campaign. Norris is having their first sustainability meeting with me on Friday. NU SOS will be happening on Friday, it's free, all day Friday. The theme is economy and the environment.
	•	Ani: Will detail the election process, but we have several speakers before that point, the first being Todd Adams, the new Dean of Students!
II. Special Order: Todd Adams, Dean of Students
	•	Todd: [Introductory Speech]
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Ian: Upper level administrators like to have meetings and summits involving students- in most of these meetings it seems like I'm more of a problem to be rectified, rather than a student voice. How will you be more welcoming to student concerns?
	•	Todd: There are a couple of ways- I sit on a couple of groups on upper administrations, one of them is more student affairs oriented that has administration like Burgie and PTI- I'm also a part of the undergraduate council which incorporates many of the deans in Northwestern's schools. My predecessor may not have been invited to these meetings, and I'm glad that I'll be working in this capacity. I want to also establish a student advisory group that reviews policies and procedures and gives more student input.
	•	Alexander: What are the biggest things that you can take from Duke to bring here?
	•	Todd: There are a number of initiatives including a campus inclusion committee- things related to the Northwestern experience and how you guys interact with each other. Also, case management- we have 300 students we're working with already, so there's certainly a need. We need to develop a care network across the institution that's not in place right now.
	•	Mark: Is your jurisdiction just undergraduates or Evanston campus, or both?
	•	Todd: All students- it's a different dynamic though since the graduate schools are even more decentralized than Evanston's campus. I've begun to spend more time down on the Chicago campus and working with faculty there. I've been to a number of places, and it's very decentralized here.
	•	Katie: Preferred method of communication?
	•	Todd: You can email me, call me, I'm pretty quick on email though. I work a lot of hours and am at a lot of things, but I like that, so definitely invite me to things. I'm not hard to find and am usually in Scott Hall.
	•	Mark: What can we do as student government representatives to assist your position?
	•	Todd: I'm working with ASG a lot now, but as I said, invite me to things! I haven't talked to a lot of students yet and would love to spend some time with all of you all. Also, let me know and remember that I'm an outlet for student concerns.
	•	David: Final thoughts on Chris Collins?
	•	Todd: think he's a great recruiter- hope to bring him to other opportunities like this and a bunch of other places over the next few months.
III. Special Order: Student Groups Subcommittee Chairs Confirmation
	•	Neel: Recently founded some subcommittees on SGC- I appointed some chairs. The SGC is in charge of all B and T status group on campus. Each group executive is responsible for around 8 groups on campus and is responsible for helping them with funding. They also help with event planning for things like Spring Leadership Training and the Activities Fairs. We also work with training new members and ensuring they attend groups that are funded through the SAF like the SAFC. For the funding subcommittee, I appointed Steph Wang, for events planning I appointed Danielle, and I put Elena in charge of training new GEs.
	•	Ani: Please introduce yourselves.
	•	Elena: I'm a junior and have been on the SGC since fall quarter of freshman year. I like training in new members and have an eye for detail.
	•	Danielle: I've also been on the committee since fall quarter of my freshman year, though not as long as Elena.
	•	Steph: I've had a lot of experience with funding and have been a Senator for a year, served on SAFC and SGC, served as a group's treasurer, had experience from every perspective.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Mike: So, for the queen of funding, when it comes to funding clubs, are you just preparing funding to give to these organizations, or also planning to emphasize fundraising and resources for new and emerging groups?
	•	Steph: Definitely, we've been putting an emphasis on this, specifically on t-status grants and looking to different departments for funding.
	•	Danielle: To add onto that, Jesse and Angela are a part of another subcommittee that manages new groups, and a lot of the time they work with groups to focus o this as well.
	•	Ani: Moving into an endorsement/question/debate period
	•	X: Why do you trust a freshman for event planning?
	•	Neel: Traditionally, Lauren took up 100% of the responsibility for planning events, so no one currently has any more experience with event planning. Danielle has been very efficient with her work and figured she'd be a good fit for the position. She has an analytical mind for the position
	•	X: Can you elaborate on how these positions would interact with exec and senate?
	•	Neel: Anything that deals with funding, the funding subcommittee will have their name on it. I will still be working with it, but they will deal with everything funding
	•	X: The confirmation is necessary because of something in the SGC code?
	•	Neel: Yeah, and I just wanted to have Senate's input on this.
	•	Alexander: Motion to previous question
	•	Vote- passed. All three members are approved.
IV. General Order: Firearm Regulation Committee Letters Presentation
	•	Alexander: Today was the last day the firearm committee was functioning- we got five schools supporting our letter. We feel that the resolution broadly represents students-  we'll be mailing out several letters to the Senate and the House.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	David: Are all the schools signing onto this in Illinois?
	•	Alexander: Yep.
	•	Alex: Have you heard back from any of these representatives?
	•	Alexander: One of the assistants in Jan Sckaowsky's office said that she'll let us know soon, haven't heard anything else besides that.
V. General Order: Election Guideline Review
	•	Abby: The election commission decided to make two minor changes- we changed that, rather than ASG providing a template, we changed the guidelines so that candidates make their own templates. We also changed a rule regarding the recording of debates.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Sarah: Regarding the website template- we did this in the past so that we could suspend a candidate's website, will changing this take away that ability?
	•	Ani: The website will be routed through the ASG server still, so that will still be possible.
	•	Motoki: I know you guys don't know how many people will run, but have you found pricing for resources for those running?
	•	Abby: Looked into this- bought some materials, will know earlier in the future because people will be declaring much earlier.
	•	Ethan: This has probably already been discussed, but has approval voting been discussed?
	•	Abby: Hasn't been brought to my attention
	•	Ian: Motion to previous question.
	•	Vote- passed. Election guidelines are amended.
VI. New Business: SR1213-14: Crosswalk Construction
	•	Alex: There is a dangerous curve between dorms like 1835, Jones & interfaith where many students have to jaywalk. Want to propose the construction of a crosswalk to make this area safer for students.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Olu: How much time does it take to walk to existing crosswalk?
	•	Alex: It's enough to be annoying.
	•	Dana: How much do you really anticipate this changing anything? If cars are already stopping at the existing crosswalk, what will this change?
	•	Alex: Would make it easier for students and tour groups to cross, but would also draw more attention to the problem and hopefully force bigger solutions in the future.
	•	Mike: Have you considered adding a stop sign?
	•	Alex: Facilities said this wouldn't be feasible because of the speed most cars are coming around the bend.
	•	Ian H: Are you aware they took that crosswalk out 2 years ago?
	•	Alex: I didn't know one was here and removed- he didn't bring that up.
	•	Tori: Do you think that people in Jones will use this?
	•	Alex: Don't think so- wanted a more extreme solution, but decided that wouldn't be feasible and that this would be a good first step.
	•	Petros: Do you think that having this sign installed only to be removed later is productive?
	•	Alex: I want to support this because I don't think Evanston could oppose this.
	•	Hannah: Do you know why they removed the original crosswalk
	•	Ian H: They were redoing the asphalt and never replaced the crosswalk and removed the signs.
	•	Jesse: Would it be possible to put a stop sign or a slow down sign in the middle of the road? I wouldn't use the crosswalk, but that intersection has been the most harmful thing to my health at Northwestern.
	•	Alex: He told me a lot of things that are required for a crosswalk.
	•	Angela: I don't understand why the tone of the discussion you had with this administrator was such that you feel you need to make a point, rather than making more direct solutions?
	•	Alex: It's not direct for a reason, these conversations happened by phone- this idea was the one that he found least objection to.
VII. Emergency Legislation: SL1213-29: Get Out The Vote, Northwestern!
	•	Chris: Didn't have a chance to get this approved earlier, hence why it's up as emergency now.
	•	Chris: The bill that you're looking at is very general- I'm coming to ask you from $105 from the Senate project pool- we've been sitting outside dorms and dining halls and held multiple candidate forums where food was served. The food helped to attract students- on April 9th, we'd also like to have pizza down by the arch, we just want to give people an opportunity to check out the elections
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Katie: This isn't incentivizing voting, right?
	•	Chris: While there is a legal precedent, this is in no way an incentive.
	•	Andrew: How many people do you think are registered that won't be voting
	•	Chris: Rough estimates indicate that around 800 students are registered in the 1st ward, want to make sure they know when the election is.
	•	Motoki: In previous years, when handing out food they used free bagels, why did you decide to use pizza instead of that?
	•	Chris: We reached out to Andy's to see if they'd provide free custard or coupons, they didn't. We could go with Project Cookie again, but wanted something different.
	•	Brad: Can you clarify details about the previous lawsuit?
	•	Chris: Brought up by Ald. Judy Fiske, regarding food given to students and she accused the school of incentivizing students to vote against her… not quite sure of other details.
	•	Mike: Can you clarify what food was provided with the previous lawsuit.
	•	Brad: It was pizza.
	•	Ian: Motion to move this old business.
	•	Vote- passed unanimously. Legislation is now old business.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Ian: Do you see $105 as a good estimate of how much pizza you'll actually need?
	•	Chris: figured it out to six pizzas, figured it'd be enough
	•	Brad: Motion to amend to change amount allocated to $500.
	•	Senators: Multiple objections
	•	Brad: $105 will not be enough, people won't even stop to talk, will just be grabbing pizza
	•	Ani: Moving into pro/con.
	•	Olu (con): It's too much, need to moderate the amount to around $300.
	•	Motoki (pro): The higher the better- whatever's not used will come back. Pretty sure Chris isn't stupid.
	•	Ian (pro): This is very wisely spent since it's in the heart of the 1st ward. $500 of pizza could buy a lot of outreach
	•	Petros (con): I approve of pizza and using it to get people to vote, but don't feel comfortable if we don't know the exact amount in the pool
	•	Alex (con): Against using the project pool for food.
	•	Alexander: Motion to previous question
	•	Vote- division.
	•	Ay- 25
	•	Nay- 9
	•	Abstentions- 2
	•	Vote- passes. Amendment is included in the bill.
	•	Ani: In line for a con speech on the bill itself
	•	Ian: Motion to previous question
	•	Vote- passed. Legislation is approved.
VIII. Special Order: Parliamentary Body Elections
	•	Ani: Two positions up right now, my position and the position of Parliamentarian.
	•	Ani: Opening the floor for nominations for Speaker of the Senate.
	•	Ian: I nominate Katie.
	•	Katie: I accept.
	•	Senator: I nominate Abby.
	•	Abby: I respectfully decline.
	•	David: I nominate Jesse.
	•	Jesse: I accept- no, just kidding you can take me off.
	•	Ani: Introduce yourself
	•	Katie: I have speech and I'm gonna read it cause I wrote it. [Great Speech]
	•	Ani: Questions for Katie?
	•	Motoki: Will you bring back paper agendas and what is the ideal setup of the Senate room?
	•	Katie: Tough problem, but looking for solutions- think that what we've been moving toward has been a move in the right direction. I think tables are important, but open to suggestions.
	•	Ian: How do you feel about a dress code for Senate?
	•	Katie: I think it's good to keep things moderately professional.
	•	David: Role you hope to play in recruitment and strategies toward high retention?
	•	Katie: Responsibilities toward recruitment are moving toward the Chief of Staff, but would want to be at the forefront of recruitment efforts.
	•	Mike: Mentioned that you want to make sure Senators remain focused, how do you plan to ensure that they do?
	•	Katie: I think it's important to call each other out when we're being disruptive.
	•	Abby: Treasurer has been dissolved- how will you be able to make sure that communication with the EVP is adequate?
	•	Katie: Should be better in the future with a new EVP and will ensure that the project pool number is always available.
	•	Petros: I know it's a frequent occurrence in long Senates that people tend to filter out- how to mitigate that and hold Senators accountable?
	•	Katie: Would work through caucus and working with Senators individually to ensure they remain engaged throughout the entire session.
	•	Dana: Are you planning to implement any changes in Senate procedure?
	•	Katie: I think that things are working well with the model we have now, wouldn't make any major changes.
	•	Jane: You mentioned about respecting the time of Senators- how do you plan to manage this?
	•	Katie: I think it's best to use the time that we have efficiently by being efficient with the motions we make and respecting each other's time.
	•	Alex: Criteria for determining which administrators can come and talk to us?
	•	Katie: Administrators are a good thing, would welcome most administration that have an interest in addressing Senate and filter vendors before allowing them to come.
	•	Tori: Policy on bringing in speakers during busy weeks?
	•	Katie: I know some administrator's schedules are rigid and it's difficult to know how long an agenda will take in advance, but would avoid bringing them in during high traffic times.
	•	Ian: Role of ASG exec during senate?
	•	Katie: I think it's important that exec members are in Senate and that they understand that we're all stakeholders in this organization's decisions.
	•	Motoki: Speaker is generally a competitive spot but you're running unopposed- how will you make sure Senators remain engaged in other leadership opportunities?
	•	Katie: There have been more opportunities for Senators to seek positions for leadership than ever before- it's important to talk about recruitment early.
	•	Carly: What do you see as Senate's biggest flaw and how to best address it?
	•	Katie: Hard to keep Senators focused- need to make sure that Senators get familiar with Senate quickly and don't spend half the quarter confused about what we're doing.
	•	David: Motion to white ballot.
	•	Vote- passed unanimously. Katie Funderberg is confirmed as the 2013-2014 ASG Speaker of the Senate.
	•	Ani: Now opening nominations for Parliamentarian.
	•	Senator: I nominate Abby.
	•	Abby: I accept.
	•	Ani: Introduce yourself.
	•	Abby: I don't have a speech prepared like Katie, but I've served on Rules previously under Brandon and having a chance to work with him while serving as Election Commissioner has shown me a lot more about the position's responsibilities and role.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Dana: Working relationship with Katie?
	•	Abby: We've met before and served together as PHA Senators- we'll get along.
	•	Ian: Do you understand preferential voting?
	•	Abby: Yes!
	•	Victor: Balancing objectivity as election commissioner with being able to select who you'll be working with.
	•	Abby: It'll be tough, but the Parliamentarian must work in a position of objectivity throughout the term, so I'm confident I can balance the responsibility.
	•	Jesse: Support the ability to eject Senators?
	•	Abby: I'd have to talk with Katie, but if they're being really disruptive then yes.
	•	Ian: How will you ensure parliamentary procedure will be maintained and that the speaker isn't taking too many liberties with granting motions.
	•	Abby: I'll do my best to work with Katie to ensure that things don't get out of hand.
	•	Alex: Sometimes the Speaker has to step down, do you feel like you could assume the role of Speaker?
	•	Abby: I'm sure that through serving in the position, I'll become more comfortable with assuming this role.
	•	Mark: Motion to white ballot
	•	Vote- passed unanimously. Abby Klearman is confirmed as the 2013-2014 ASG Parliamentarian.
IX. Good of the Order & Announcements
	•	Alexander: Just in case you weren't paying attention, election is April 9th, early voting is happening now!
	•	David: Reminder about tabling for BookSwap tomorrow, also, tour guide applications are live!
	•	Abby: Start getting the word out to people that elections are happening!
	•	Mark: Divestment
	•	Ethan: HEY EVERYBODY?
	•	Victor: UBPC is opening for applications, one of the most powerful groups at Northwestern outside of ASG
	•	Ian: Rules elections coming up, and we need to fill more seats than usual.
	•	Alex: Zumba on south campus- not my thing, but attend so that we can have sessions more often!

Senate Adjourned
