Victor: we have the priorities list were in the process of making it more of a master plan so we can present it and tell students what were working on and can tell people. It should be done before the end of the year
How many people have signed up for NU gives back, I met a lot of great people last year we gave them 1000 so we should be supporting it
Ian: when do you expect to have the master plan done, 
Victor the end of the year
Ian: can you make it public
V: yeah sure
Brad: if you haven’t yet, you should be getting an email about the group you are assigned to and 
we are also in the process of talking about marketing. 
3 new pieces of legislation 
office hours
Alex: I put in the exec board writing report, I am on the 1 book one NU, they want senators leading groups of freshman into the city to tie in with the book. So if you’re interested, send me an e-mail, its September 30th. The book is called  Never a City so Real
Ani: alternates cant vote in funding
Becca: we have 2 flyers, off campus senator apps deadline is extended, all of you need to take some and hang them up somewhere
There are three spots open for flyering, 
Ani: were doing a quick publicity campaign to tell people what ASG does, and we have 8 new senator positions so keep in mind that senators have a one hour PR requirement, eve if you don’t have a slot please take some and hang them up in your dorm. 
Brandon: after senate I will send out a link for senator trainings, all new senators need to get trained, be on the look out for that. 
David: a few weeks ago during the power point I gave you a preview of what our projects will be
Taxi cab share smart phone app
Student lead seminars
Norris mini course but by a student, anything from excel training to personal passions. Everyone would potentially pay 5 dollars. 
Printers in dorms
Study abroad housing guide
Maintain current services: big bight night, legal services, etc. 
All members of my committee will compose an action brief
Girish: thanks for last week, there will be 4 open spots on the SAFC so if any of you are personally interested please talk to me or shoot me an email and please tell your constituents and you should talk to me before hand. 
The SAFC deals with a status groups and we disperse their funding (1.4 mil)
If you know someone who want to run!
Ethan: HEY EVERYBODY! Two quick things, has anyone heard of “Video” it’s a new video conferencing service that NUIT instituted, who uses skype?! For free on Video, you can video conference for free with up to 7 people. Check out that cool new service, you can just google its VYDIO
Next week I am meeting with the NUIT student advisory committee and we talk about what NUIT is up to and share news about tech on campus. 
ASG IT wish list, the idea is to get some ideas out on the table about what we would like to do on campus, what would be the ultimate in projects NUIT could take on to better campus. I am taking ideas
Mark: not enforcing piracy law
Partick: seconding what mark said
Ethan: anything that is slightly more legal
Krish: web development classes
Tori: better Caesar
Mary Grace: something easier to use
Becca: chrome
X: blackboard app on android
Mark: students download software available on public computers
Photo editing, adobe
X: the way videos are posted on blackboard
Ani: minutes are now available online, I sent the link out to you on my exec report, as well as the agenda,
Please send all announcements to asg-speaker@u.northwestern.edu. Please cc asg-parliamentarian when you are sending out announcements to constituents. Its is critical for accountability
Protocol: laptops are a privilege, not a right, if I see a lot of typing or grinning, I can ask you to put it away, you should only look at the funding packet or the agenda, please give speakers your undivided attention
The transportation working group has one position open for a senator, if these are issues that interest you please let me know
Ani: New Business, the diversity committee
Brad: this is the first of three pieces of legislation, what we are proposing is structure change to the way committees work to an extent, hopefully you are familiar with the diversity committee, it will move the structure to a committee from a commission and it will change the chair of the committee to an associate VP under the VP of student life. They will be chosen by a selection committee, with the student life VP, the coalition of colors, the former associate VP. That is a run don of the bill to formalize the structure and it is a way of making sure that it is not forgotten. This is just new business. 
Sustainability: this does the exact same thing except the committee doesn’t exist yet so we would be creating it. 
Working group on Alc policy and culture, this is a joint effort to evaluate alc policy specifically to do some peer institution research and really look at potential ways to make alc culture here more safe. It would consist of a working group made of some senators and some other students that would have to report back to senate. It would require some work over the summer but not totally. 
Mark: do you have any sort of long term goal they are working towards?
Brad: its not specified in the legislation but when we spoke to PTI she said she would support it. 
We also spoke to her about the Responsible Action Protocol
Victor: our agreed timeline was to create a timeline for the proposal so it made the most sense to do this, this way
Brad: if the bill passes next week we would have elections next week. If you’re interested please contact me beforehand so talk to me about it. 
Ani: the following senators cant vote because they weren’t here or they are new. 
The way funding works is we have a randomized list, we will go through a cut round, if you feel like based on the funding packet we have sent out, that the line items should be cut, you can motion and have it seconded and then we will debate and vote on it. After a cut round we will go through an add round and there is a 500$ amendment pool. In the add round we can motion to add that to specific line items if you feel that the SGC has not added sufficient funds. 
CUT
Students for life: cut the line item for bioethics symposium honorarium 
Jared: the policy right now, is confusing, the red cross club were denied 300 dollars for funding for an honorarium because it was a gift not a fee, but there are currently 3 honorariums being funded, none of them should be it doesn’t make sense when some of these groups get funded and some of them don’t. 
Lauren: the reason they didn’t get funded bc a NU Law professor was speaking and they speak for free, we typically fund honorarium. 
Ani we will now go into 3 rounds of pro and con
PRO: Jared: if an honorarium is a gift not a fee, isn’t an honorarium a gift? 
Lauren: honorarium is a person who comes to campus to speak. The difference is that it was a NU law professor that would come for free, we don’t want to spend money on something that isn’t a charge, this law professor shouldn’t be paid if he is willing to speak for free. 
Motion withdrawn 
ADD
Flipside: motion to add 50 dollars to printing costs
Ben: treasurer, we are NU version of the onion, we publish funny articles on line and every quarter we ask for funding for issues, we requested 400 dollars for printing, each one casts 100, this quarter we were given 150. We can print a half an issue, 
Lauren: the SGC doesn’t normally print publications, the committee feels that flipside’s printing, is like an event, they couldn’t get advertisements which is usually how revenue is made for publishing. They asked for 400 dollars to up the quality of paper which we didn’t think was pertinent, 
Mark: what kind of paper are you using?
Printing paper
Mary grace: what has advertising looked for you
Ben: we have new leadership and they are still in the process of transitioning, marketing hasn’t been a priority. We havnt had a committee in a few years so this upcoming year we are introducing that
PRO: ben: since it costs 100 dollars to print we wouldn’t be able to print a half
CON: Matt: Lauren explained the reasoning for funding, we would like to fund half the cost of publication. Also, the SGC doesn’t feel that an increase like this is sustainable for the future. We are happy to fund them at half but the extra 50 every quarter is not sustainable
PRO: the extra 50 wouldn’t be going towards higher quality paper, if we had gotten the 400 it would have but the extra 50 would just be for the printer paper
CON: Lauren, the SGC will continue to fund them at half, we want to ensure that they can have their publication go out. We fund programming and we want to make sure flipside achieves their goal so they can run their publication. It is not sustainable for us. That would be 600$ a year for them to run their publication. Flipside has been working really hard though, so I am not making a pro….. 
(motion to PQ)
All in favor of granting flipside an extra 50$
(passes)
Happiness Club: 20$ for Play-doh
Alex: I am the recruitment director for happiness club, we requested 20 for play doh. It was rejected for internal use, however next week there will be an event and we are going to make playing with play-doh. This will be a one time addition 
SGC cant fund internal invents, we fund programming that is opened to all campus, this is technically a different line item for play-doh before. 
Sarah: do you realistically believe you be able to re use the play doh?
Alex: Motoki 
Motoki: when is this event happening?
Alex: we did 2 different weeks this year and one in the fall.
Mark: what color play dohs are you purchasing?
Yellow, green, blue, maybe red?
Mark: I am concerned if you reuse these colors it will result in brown
(motion to PQ)
(passed)
Camp Kesem: motion to allocate 100 dollars to banner
Victor: i am the treasurer for camp kesem, it is a one time fee that we could use for any event we could use for fund raising, we are willing to cut out the 20 dollars for publicity, I recognize that publicity is standardized at 20 but this would be really valuable. 
Motoki: we do standardize publicity at 20 we have denied other groups that have asked for more money than that. The banner would be used at camp and we can fund something that is not open to all NU students, 
Eric: how does this benefit NU students?
Victor: were awesome we would use this for recruitment and for events, although it is a publicity thing
Eric: just because the standardize it at 20 would you be comfortable receiving less?
Lauren: the reason we have standardizations is so that everything is fair. Bu you guys voting yes for this you are opening the flood gates and although victor does need this all the groups could use more funding and that is not sustainable. 
Sarah: have you considered going to Artica and making your own? That is probably around 20. 
Victor: we wanted something more professional looking and we didn’t consider that viable
PRO: victor: I wont be devastated but any money would be awesome we put on a camp for kids that have parents going through or have gone through cancer, we would use the banner a lot for on campus publicity that would improve exposure. Our counselor increased by 50% this year and we are looking to expand
CON matt: so just to make it abundantly clear, were not saying that this is not a worthy cause, we are proud of what they do but we shouldn’t be judging and saying one group is better than another, we ask that we retain what we have standardized, if one group asks for 100 than all will and we don’t want groups thinking they are better than other. It is not a call senate is comfortable making and we hope senate will concur. 
(PQ)
(motion denied)
ISA: 
Iran: here to petition for 300$, I don’t know how many of you have heard of the internatonal food festival. Last year we got a NU night grant, and we partnered with A and O and they agreed to fund the whole event except for one movie, each movie right is 500. NU night grants are only for new events so we cant apply again. I know SGC has a very limited amount of money, ISA has an event every other week to bond the ISA community and to let other students come get to know us and the diversity we bring, we recognize that this event wasn’t very interactive so we want to have a night walk, we need funding for this to mark the past. It is not publicity. We estimate the cost would be 50 but we are asking for 30 and we are also asking to add 20$ for publicity
Lauren: they will need to motion for each line: 20 publicity, 30 for Night walk, and 250 for movie rights. The reason they are not on the board is because they submitted the app may 8th, and they were due April 20th. 
Ani: were not talking about specific money yet were just voting on considering their line items. 
Pathushia: are they still allowed to petition for money next quarter
Lauren: nothing will effect them later
Ani: any further questions?
Ian: why was the ISA app late? 
Iran: I overlooked it. 
Mark: have you approached RHA or RCB for other grants?
Iran: we did try to approach them but ISA has the world cup and they fund us a lot of money for that and so they have already funded ISA a lot of money. We did try, and they said, we can only do one event
(PQ to add ISA to the board)
(passed)
Iran: motion 250 for movie right for International Movie and Film festival, we have to buy at least one movie right to have this event, A and O will be funding the rest as long as we can get this one event
Lauren: normally we fund late groups 0. We recommend that the requests on the board be filled at half. Since the app is late it is coming out of the supplementary pool so if we fund them at full we would have to cut for groups that turned their forms in on time. 
Tori: would that include standardized publicity
Lauren: yes, the supplementary pool is so small
Alex: what else is going to draw from this pool?
Lauren: there is a group here that got their forms in on time that we are going to recommend in full but we can go through a cut round open to all groups
Katie: when you were making their speech they indicated that they were not asking for full funding, would you still have funded them in half if they had asked for more?
X: would you rather have one of those line items funded in full?
Iran: I think the event with A and O would be best to fund or else the whole event would go to waste. ISA doesn’t just do banners for publicity, we had a big banners and we asked everyone to write a note in their native language. 
PRO:
CON: Lauren, the situation here is that the SGC would not fund a late application because it is unfair to groups that don’t get their apps in and these groups were well aware of when the deadline is so it is very generous of the SGC to be considering this. We recommend 125 due to funding constraints. 
X: Motion to amend the line item to 125: I realize they are doing a good job and made a mistake, I think we should give them something but not half of the entire pool. 
PRO: the SGC is in favor of the amendment
(motion to PQ)
Ani: all in favor of accepting the amendment
(passed)
(motion to PQ)
(passed) 125 has been awarded
Iran: motion to 20 dollars for publicity: we need publicity really badly, 
Lauren: we recognize that they are a good group, and that this is trivial because it is 10 dollars. Every group needs a lot of things, the SGC is making a HUGE exception here because they were late. 
PRO:
Mark: Motion to amend: cut to 10 dollars
(Motion to PQ)
(passed)
(motion to PQ)
(passed)
Iran: motion for 30$ for night walk: after a really big event we will be able to find other sponsors, sometimes community building cant be done on a big scale, can we at least have 20 instead of 15 because 5 dollars makes a big difference
Lauren: we are recommending for 15 to keep it consistent. 
Michelle: how often do you do this? 
Iran: there will only be one
X: what is the tape for? It is tape and string, we want to make sure they don’t walk into the river. 
Brad: (motion to amend to 15) I would recommend that any group needs to raise a small amount of money they fundraise
(motion to PQ)
Ani we return to debate on the 15$
(passed)
Rotaracks: motion to add 2 line items, speakers, and publicity. 
It is the connection btwn college and roateree the international volunteer organization. Roateree. When we sent in the app we sent it out under the wrong format
Lauren: we submit apps electronically and in order to submit an app we ask they send it into a folder, they attached their app with their annual review form, on time, but in the wrong format. 
Ian: are you planning to avoid this in the future
Lauren: I don’t see this happening the problem that he turned his review doc in earl, the instructions are clear, I don’t see it as his fault but none of the other groups had this problem. 
PRO:
(motion to PQ)
(passed)
X: motion for 20$ for publicity
Lauren: we fully support both requests in full 
(PQ)
All in favor of adding 20$
(passed)
Motion to add 150$ to add a speaker. We had Gary Schultz come in as a volunteer. He talked about opportunities in volunteering and this year there will be a more prominent member
Alex: a member from the rotaree club is going to charge you to speak when there are not traveling expenses
X: this would give us a wider range of people to choose from
Lauren: we fully support this and would have funded this in the funding debate. 
(Motion to PQ)
(passes)
Ian: motion to open up an add round, please don’t shake your head at me
Girish: what happens to the pool if its not spent?
Lauren: it will be redistributed next quarter
 (motion denied)
Ani: motion to close funding- passed

Ani: Ians legislation was tabled two weeks ago, 
Ian: I would like to kill it forever
Mark: SECONDED!
Ani: all in favor please say Aye
(passed)
Ani: Mark wants to table the bill bc steven is not here, any objections to table it for a week?
(passed)
Ani: Campaign Cutbacks
(motion to table for a week)
(passed)




