Senate 5/9
Ani: We have a packed meeting tonight, here is the ASG project report, senate requested this outline of priorities. Were are putting a lot of information online by replacing google docs so we will have that opened up to you so you can view legislation online. Be on the look out for that, 
Brad: while they try to get this up, I want to preface the presentation and we had the exec board retreat last sat and we came up with over 200 things, not all of them are in this presentation, this represents our priorities and we will be publishing the entire lists but this will basically summarize basic points from the retreat and in addition to things that are not on the list we really want feedback from you. This is not a check list and its not like at the end of they year we will be able to cross all of these off I is more of a guide for this year
Victor: our big theme is connecting NU. Providing resources to student groups, creating and facilitating an environment so students can reach their full potential. 
Every project we plan on pursing falls into one of these categories
We want to better the NU experience and lay down the groundwork for long term goals, for everything we don’t finish we want to make sure we provide the tools needed to do so
We want to answer the question “what is asg” for all students
We want to raise legitimacy and prestige. We should be the best group on campus, we have a lot of power and we serve as the liaison between students and admin. We should have the best people in here
Brad: developing a stronger sense of community. We will be having several events inviting in new committee members and senators. Tomorrow or Friday everyone will be added to an all ASG listserv so we can all communicate and create a cohesive sense
Training and increasing senator competition. 
Facilitating leadership opportunities
Expanding institutional memory: using google drive which will be integrated with our new site, we will have all minutes up so you will never have to repeat work
Victor: we have broken down all projects by committee
Academics: working to improve the curriculum, diversity and inclusion requirement, we want a lot of research on this so that we provide something that is really valuable to students, Environmental classes… etc. all fitting within the strategic plan and also connecting our community to more global cultures. 
Advising, this cant be perfect but it must improve every year
Mentoring and shadowing
Faculty student interaction grants so students can get to know profs
Syllabus on CTECHs, 
Undergrad research database
UCS improvements
Steven: in addition to what we have done this year like the housing fair,
Occupancy reform, a new committee through student counsel with students on, we also have other ideas in mind that will be less formal
Voter registration, in april there are municipal elections for the alderman and the mayor and we want students voting 
Protests response code reform, after UC david and UC berkely, we are glad to see the police advisory board and hopefully we can get them to clarify what the protest response is for the UPD so we never have students in danger if they are not causing harm
We want to expand our volunteer opportunities and expand that year by year, we would like to have some large fair once a year so students can know whats going on in Evanston and Chicago. 
Brad: one of our major themes is connecting NU and so were really looking to collaborate with groups that are already doing these things instead of creating our own, and if you have ideas for us please reach out
Brad: what were going to propose in the future, is the creation of two sub committees under student life, one already exists which is the Diversity committee. We would make the chair of this committee an assistant of the Student life committee. 
MSA resource funding
Gender neutral bathrooms
Bias response team and protocol for that, they are working on that with Bergie
The other committee to go under student life would be Sustainability
Brad: a large part of my role is working on internal management, were going to propose some changes to 5K which would make it a 10K initiative and we would switch the chair of the committee the VP rather than the P and we will come through with some legislation for that
Alc Culture and Policy Forum with PTI Bergie and Lisa currie, its only open to student leaders. 
All ASG meetings and social events, so everyone actually knows everyone in this room
Victor: we spend most ASG money on Eva Jefferson day and MLK day
Food truck events wil happen every quarter
NU day at the united center
For the bulls
Ani: revamp recruitment and orientation speak for itself, we want expectations to be very clear and we want to raise the bar for senators, we want to attract freshman
We want a senator retreat to orient 
Senator accountability
Caucus whips, we want to change the way they are elected and make sure they are leading the senators to do good things
Exec board here every week and staying for at least one hour
Training session for roberts rules
Code review
X: so did you say that we have to attach the parliamentarian to?
Ani: every time you send out the ASG weekly, send it to the parliamentarian account
Victor: Student summit: reception and key note speaker to network and get to know student leaders. 
cash cab
Presidential leader initiative
Special interest roundtables
Student enrichment fund
Winter fest
As well as a bunch of other projects
Becca: a brochure that is easy to access
Merch for the NU activities fair 
Collaborating with NU nights
Having ASG at munchies and firesides during election season
Student event publicity
Making profiles on the web site, 
Publicity guidelines
having the same logo
David Harris: the new tech resources and service, we work with ethan and tech, I just recruited two computer science majors which will hopefully lighten his load. Working with expression NU and having a spot for students to recommend things for asg or how to fund resources
Taxi cab match up sign up 
Enhancements to unofficial student guide
On campus housing
Managing existing service, it is important that we continue to market and improve what already exists. 
Book swap, bringing it back
Legal advise 
Food truck festival 
Big bight night. 
Some of our new service: student led seminars taught by students
Printers and dorms
Peer to peer academic mentoring. 
Girish: spring funding is today, hopefully that will continue, quarterly audits, the bottom three points, looking at ways to incentives co sponsorships. 
We want to make it clear that students and advisors know the funding process and how to mover through t b a statuses
Brad: student group committees, lots of SAFC overlap, guide for how to join student groups, collaboration, SOOF?, storage options and third spaces for group rental
Alex: we have the most amount of projects, we are partnering with case to look at upperclassmen meal plans, electronic package notification system for the fall, expand library café hours during finals week, tradition book for archives, online work order reporting, field renovation, One book One NU, roommate matching survey improvements, new student center, we are going to have the committee in here, performance spaces, 24 hour spaces, guest meal plan, student group library printing, alumni resource consolidation, upperclassman housing, rollover program for meals and points, sustainability, diversity committees, we want them to work on an environmental footprint study and recycling, 
Brad: we just ran through a bunch of those but its only half and if you want any more info well send it out
Ethan: WOO! ALRIGHT! We have a lot of cool projects in the works, the main web site answering what is ASG who are we and What are we doing oh and How to get involves. Expression NU getting feedback from NU students, im most excited about My NU, we have no student groups list and I want to solve that problem via a site that provides a customizable homepage and an events calendar, book swap 2.0, a committee member interested in developing that, the unofficial student guide, we are getting that together and well have that ready for the fall. 
Brad: wrapping up, after we camp up with all of this, we are proposing creating working group for all of these but we will propose an alc safety working group with Greek communities among others, and then a few members from senate, if your interested come talk to me. PTI has given us the research go ahead, everything else is something that has already been in existence. 
Victor: that’s it, this is preliminary and by the end of the year we want to give this out to administrators and we want you to be able to answer what ASG is doing. If you have suggestions please send them our way. 
Ani: SGC funding is new business that I will send to you, quick housekeeping things
For A status groups, were working off the updated one and Girish will motion to accept all amendments made
Lets be respectful of everyone who is talking, on your laptops, unless youre taking notes, please keep your typing to a minimum and if youre scrolling, only scroll through the funding 
We will be going through two rounds, the first will be a cut round, ill go through pretty slowly, anyone can make a motion but you need a second by a senator. If you weren’t here last week you cannot vote. You cannot vote if you’re a senator for your student group. 
The second pass is an add round, funds can only be added to line items in the funding request, you cant add line items, keep in mind, when were funding, were not transferring money from one group to another, were doing from a pool. Lets not be outrageous, the funds added will be consistent with SAFC guidelines. 
Girish: just taking a step back, lets go through the amendments we came up with last night, 18 groups came in and the changes are reflected here on the screen, there were no cuts only adds
NXE: 16000+ and vocal coaching
College dems
NCSA
MCSA SASA 500 honorarium
SASA 1600 live band
Art alliance 600 storage
KASA 
PAR 1950 honorarium
Hillel 3800 spring speaker
SEED environmental intersection
AO 77338 and 2000 film 
Unity 300 honorarium
Rainbow
Habitat 299 transport
College reps 300 
FMO 14960 honorarium 200 publicity 500 pulse mag publication
These are all reflected in the document, motion to amend them all 
Ian: is the reason for them insufficient tiering,
Girish: yes, small issues on apps and KASA reevaluated after the event had happened
Ani: any pros? Any cons?
Ian: motion to PQ
(passed)
54000 is the senate amendment pool and if we cut it goes right to that pool
Girish: there are 54000 dollars in the pool and you do not have to use all of it, if you don’t it goes to the sub cycle, and a lot of groups plan on using that, don’t look to spend all of that. 
Ani: in the add round when you vote to add youre taking from that pool, we can go into deficit but when we wipe that balance we have to cut from groups too
CUT ROUND:
ADD ROUND:
NPHC: (Kalvin Pocu) Motion to add 500 dollars for the DJ for greek because before we had the event, but we had it last Saturday now that the event happened we would like to ask for it. 
Girish: in the past you were funding 250, would you like for that?
Kalvin: no, 500
X: we initially didn’t fund them because the event handing happened when they applied, the increase is a 13% increase for the event, the pool isnt growing enough to sustain that but we would be comfortable if they asked for a lower amount. 
PRO Kalvin: maybe im confused, 500 is usually the amount we were given but it is fair to say we would accept 
Girish: for another event you got 500, not this one you received 250
Derrick: excuse me, we are comfortable
Mark: SAFC is consistent with this?
Girish: yes
(motion to PQ)
(passed)
Kalvin: we would like to 4000 dollars for our honorarium host, the event didn’t occur before when we had asked for funding but last year we brought don rollings from the chapelle show that is how much he costs and we would like to keep up that level of entertainment
Derrick: this is what we mentioned earlier, they were funded 3500 last year and that would be a 750 $ increase but this is not sustainable despite their success we would be more comfortable with a smaller increase. 
PRO April: they should be funding bc the host was very funny and it is important that we get this money to maintain the quality of this event. Why not?
CON Girish: we cant sustain 13% increases, this board can support that, 
Kalvin: to be in compliance, can we ask for 3700$ instead? For the greek scene honorarium. 
Ani: we withdrew 4000 for 3700 amendment
(motion to PQ)
Ani: all in favor of awarding this (passed)
Mayfest
Motion to add 1250 to the lakefill activities on the lakefill, this is important because it keeps people there during the concerts, were asking for it now because in the past the NCAF we have received this money but CSI helped us also, their funding got cut though so this is our main source of income
Greg: if you look at the packet, mayfest, we gave them a 4.1 % increase and we reward them for continued successful programming and Mayfest usually comes ask during supplemental funding. 
Ian: have you reached out to other orgs to sponsor this?
Mayfest: yes we got a NU night grant but such a huge portion came from CSI that we need to secure this money now to make sure we have funding
Jane: you said you received a grant how much and what was it for, have you approached RHA and RCB
Mayfest: We got 400 dollars and we work with RHA for art
Ani we will move into a debate period
PRO
CON Girish: the pool only grows at 4%. We support these activities but we cant allow mayfest to exceed the growth of the pool
X: what percent does this change the increase to. 
4.8%
X: if you don’t get it from here where would you go?
Mayfest: we want money to be used by groups for their own programming and so there is not a lot of money just sitting around
X: what activities do you want?
There are some activities that already have really long lines and they are expensive because they 
have to be staffed so we would cut those, 
X:Have you approached the provost?
Mayfest:Have you met provost lindsor?
Ani: all in favor of funding this event (denied)

Arts Alliance
Kylie: Motion to add 575$ to our meow preview show, the content is different from main stage show, it is different programming and we did not clearly explain that to SAFC
SAFC: the board wasn’t sure between the preview and main stage, when they came to amend it we learned the different and we are willing to fund this
Motoki: is there a specific item that this is being added to?
Kylie: yes, there are several different line items, for simplicity and time, 
Kylie: motion for 75$ in publicity
(passed)
Kylie: motion to add 500$ in lighting materials, lighting comes out to be over 1000 dollars so anything would help. 
(motion to PQ)
Ani: all in favor of adding 500 $ to lighting
(passed)
Kylie: motion to add 150$ to venue for the Great Room, it is the standard rental fee for Jones and it is essential for this programming to happen
X:I know the amount that were look at right now is only 150, we need to look at it from the big picture, they are new to the A status pool and we are already funding them 50000 and the extra 150 is adding more to an already huge amount and they can get funding from other groups
Kylie: Arts Alliance has been providing these events for a long time and we are well aware of what we need, and internally we have been going strong for 35 years
PROS:
CONS:
(Motion to PQ)
(does not pass)
A&O
Logan: Motion to make winter speaker event a winter speaker series. SO thanks for being here, were here for the third consecutive year to talk about the format. We originally petitioned for the series and it was never brought up in our SAFC interview. You may be familiar with this debate, you have allowed us in the past. The format of the series allows us to bring the best speakers we can to campus, both of our events have sold out. This allows us to be successful because we can book acts simultaneously. For us this is better so that the artists that are available that are better and cheaper we can book and secure. It also allows us to deal with venues. Pick stager is very difficult with dates, and we can only hold dates for a small amount of time. Third, the series allows us to avoid the contract mess with CSI, if we didn’t have the series we would have to petition after the contract was signed. We literally got contracts in the week before. This created a whole new mess of time constraints. 
SAFC/Girish: the fundamental reason why we as a board disagree with this is because it is against our guidelines, we don’t want groups to be able to spend money on whatever they want. The central theme of our guidelines is funding consistently successful events on campus so if a group put on 2 successful 30 thousand dollar speakers we know that are capable of this. This does not translate to the ability of a group to throw one successful 60 thousand dollar speakers. Just bc they are both speakers on concerts doesn’t mean that they are the same kind of events. This will not lead to consistently good programming on campus. 
X: what are we voting for? Are we proposing to split the original speaker funding? 
Girish: right now they are funded one winter speaker they would like to split that up to as many as they would like
X: motoki: why havnt you started to petition to two separate events
Logan: when you negotiate with artists or speakers, it is a fickle process, one day I could approach them at 35000 dollars and we want to send them an offer, the next day the agent could change that to 38K now, because that’s where artists are getting their money. So they have the ability to negotiate that way. The series allows us to negotiate freely, so we don’t loose out quicker on artists. Petitioning forces us to wait. 
X: have we lost out on speakers in the last two or three years? 
Max: briefly, with the term lost out, we do send offers to artists that don’t accept, the artists we consider range from 15 to 100 thousand dollars and sometimes we need the flexibility to make our best offers. 
X: where do ticket sales go?
Girish: 25% goes back to A&Os 00 and the rest goes to the project pool
PRO: there is a good chance that if we hadn’t had the series we would not be successful we began planning at the beginning of the year the challenges of other programming, we were working on a timeline that wasn’t practical, we wanted to move our second speaker into the spring, if we have been on a single speaker funding line item we couldn’t have done that after having had our other contracts in. the second thing, this is something that has been approved by senate in the past two years and we think it is integral in moving forward. So we have learned from our mistakes. The money coming from ticket sales and the fact that we had good turn out has allowed us to move forward
CON: Omar: primarily, both sides have decided that it would be more advantageous to not have 2 events, single speaker set is better because 2 speakers doesn’t allow offers to go up to the maximum amount. With the singer speaker format, they can extend offers all the way up and when they have an acceptance they can petition to move funds over, not until they have acceptance can they do this, this is what has happened historically, usually the second speaker happened in the spring. There have been 2 years. 2 years ago the second part of the series, the SAFC lost its oversight and that is the purpose of the SAFC, this is the students money and we need to be able to evaluate it properly, we don’t make these recs on a whim, and the reason we make good recs is because we are part of the process all the way through. This is outside of our guidelines, they can have the ability to do whatever they want with the money. We have turned other groups down who have also attempted this format
PRO Logan: once we have signed contracts back we can petition, not before. The contract process is not consistent, if you remember back in the fall Lupe was leaked before the contract was signed and attendance suffered because of it. This is not just a giant pool of money we can do whatever we want with, its for a specific series, and in all honesty we put on a lot of program anyways, it just makes it easier to put on these two speakers as we have done for years now. 
CON SAFC: I want to clarify in case there is misunderstanding, in a series youre getting one honorarium used for any number of speakers. This is not how the guidelines work, I think you guys mentioned you wouldn’t use the money for anything, that’s fine, but nobody will know how many speakers you will bring in, that lack of clarity makes it hard for the board to figure out how to evaluate the event. If you have one speakers that you bring in for 300000 dollars, and you keep changing the amount for events and the number of people that comes for event will not be able judge and A&) can be evaluated. About the simultaneous booking, all groups are subjected to this. They can petition, all groups that want series can do this and we are flexible and we work hard to get good results for you. We need to be able to figure out how to evaluate you guys for the NU community so you continue to have good programming. 
PRO Steven: I was a senator last year and we passed the same amendment last year, they proved that it worked this year and I understand contractual programs, I voted in favor for it last year. Just judge the pros and cons, but consider your interests and that of other students
CON Kelsey: to reiterate what we have been saying, this is a huge risk it sets a precedent for AO and all groups. If there is one great event and one poor event, its hard to determine what to do with that. We can ensure the best use of funds are going into place. We highly respect you guys but we need to make sure that optimum programming is provided for all groups. Were against splitting this. 
(Motion to extend)
PRO Logan: it wouldn’t make sense for us to put on many many programs, if we did like 6 more speakers, it would be a burden on all of our committees, 2 speakers makes sense for us. This fits within our organization framework. SAFC points to a lot of hypothetical’s, we need to look at what has happened, 2 great sell out shows. 
Mark: what does A&O spend their budget on?
X: when were not funded we use it to supplement what we are not funded things that were not necessarily funded for. 
CON Jeremy: I am the previous FVP, in my mind there is a happy medium between these two proposals, between a series and a single event. I think we should be splitting this into 2 events, it would allow the increase of their purchase power. Right now with the speaker series there could be any split. When groups come to petition they have to know what they want, if different circumstances come into play, they could petition before the events happen. In my mind a group should have to decide what they want before hand and if the situation arises where they want to change that they can. 
Ani: we are in line for a vote
(does not pass)
College Republicans
Dane: motion for 100 dollars for fall speaker honorarium. In the fall quarter we spent our money on Andrew Brighbard and we brought in over 100 people on that. The year prior to that our turn out was dismal so we have had an increase in attendance and since that we have had two very successful events with one 80 person and one 400 person with Herman Cain. Its hard to book speakers for anything less than 10000 dollars and an 1000 increase will allow us to draw larger audiences. 
SAFC: college reps is asking for an additional increase in funding, before it was funded 5000 this would double the % increase. We have increased their funding because they have increased attendance and they co sponsored. Were increasing them a lot, in the past more groups have increased more than 40 people, if something is wildly successful we might increase 8 % or 15% max, they are asking for 20% increase for a marginally successful event increase. 
Dane: last fall when we spent out 5000, we were amazed we got that many people to come, he was what we were able to afford but we were able to get over 100 people in a far shorter amount of time. 
Mark: could you speak to the student increase?
SAFC: if you go that far back it was 75 to a 115 percent increase. Its not just honorarium increase. We don’t know how many students. 
PRO: although the numbers make it sound like an exorbitant amount, this is an organization that has proven itself and would like to continue to do so. We are trying to throw bipartisan events to learn. I think these increases will really help that and with this money I think you will be really surprised by what we can do
CON Paul: using the argument that with an extra 1000 dollars, every group would benefit from that. I don’t think that that is a good enough argument. 
PRO Jane: its bringing the whole NU community together 
CON Anna: hi, just basically a 20% increase is a lot, this is not a huge amount of increase in audience, we want to treat all students as equally as possible. 
(motion to PQ)
(motion does not pass)
OSB
Motion 400$ for travel, we have an honorarium, as far as travel is concerned, 400 $ is an adequate amount. 
SAFC Girish: this year this event had a decrease in attendance, you could petition to move your funds to travel. 
PRO: 
CON:
X: is there a reason why you’re doing it now instead of petitioning, 
OSB: I am not sure that splitting honorarium is feasible, rescinding the motion. 
ASB
Jenny: outgoing program director, displayed lack of demonstrated need. Our events are huge financial liability. The insurance on our vans is not very good, the buffer is necessary incase we need to pay for damage. The buffer in our account is necessary and you never no. the second reason is sometimes we have unforeseen housing fees that we try not to, sometimes orgs have fees for participating. Paying to volunteer isn’t a sustainable fee. The money we have in our account is an extra buffer. Increasing popularity in out trips, because of the distance of these trips we have to fly and these trips are very expensive. We want to be able to put on more of a variety of trips. We are asking for 225
Tori: ASB has a large 00 to cover some of their costs, we want them to spend it down and when asked they kept it as a comfort thing. We don’t see the need for these funds because they already have so much. 
Jenny: the buffer is for when participants pay extra for this buffer, the more SAFC funds us the less we can ask for from participants. 
Tori: their 00 is approximately 30,000 dollars. 
Mary Grace: why do you have such a large 00?
Jenny: we sent 2 class trips to Arizona and Mexico, the tickets cost a lot, and last year we sent two trips internationally, we paid contracts we had to front, van deductibles are so high. This year we had to pay a huge amount in liabilities, in order for us to not have to worry about every detail. 
Jane: how many students did you fly for 15000?
Jenny: 26 in all
Michele: how did you get the 225 amount? How would this be a security?
Jenny: it is a tiring for the winter trips in particular. We did it at the advise of our AE
Amalia: how many students would this benefit?
Jenny: if you give us 2240 dollars, it comes out to about 50$ a person, so we can change everyone more or put on fewer trips
PRO Jenny: SAFC addressed the fact that the buffer in our account is a buffer, but this year we have spent more than we have in the past, this year we paid for t shirts and water bottles and for more sight fees. We can use those things to et our sight leaders to a retreat off campus but this is something that will happen from our 00 next year. I don’t think 30000 is crazy to have for a group like ASB’s caliber. 
CON Tori: we are not targeting ASB, the requirement is that only 3% of what we fund them and 30000 is well over that
(PQ)
(motion does not pass)
ASB: Jenny: Motion to pass, help offset the costs for motor pool now and help offset any costs that we incur now. 
Tori: the same argument as before, the housing thing and motor pool, we don’t fund these things. 
PRO Mat: participant fees, whenever money we can subsidize, whatever money we get through funding goes into that subsidy. By getting this extra 1200 we would allow more people to go. Were not spending the extra money from the motor pool, but the cost of renting vans from motor pool, it would ultimately got to paying for more vans. 
CON:
(PQ)
(motion does not pass)
ASA
Michele: Motion to 300 dollars for honorarium, every year we have Africa awareness month surrounding a theme, this year we did African youth. We have an honorarium. We had Malik Coumaura come as well as Loyola’s dance team. The event brought in 60 people, events like this makes ASAs programming memorable
SAFC: initially we were uncomfortable because of insufficient teiring, but now were comfortable at this amount
(PQ)
(approved)
AATE
Jessica: Motion to add 50 for sets props and costumes we were funded at decrease because of decrease in attendance. we did one less event but were still compared to the same number. 
SAFC: we are comfortable with the 50$ that they ask for
(PQ)
(passes)
Jessica: motion to add 100 to lights, we were funded at a decrease for the same reasons, there were students admitted for free and were not counted in our rev
SAFC: attendance decreased 7%, the 100$ is too much compared to the cut they experienced in attendance. 
Ian: with the 50 increase what does total increase come to?
X:did you say you admitted students could come for free from classes?
Jessica: we did one less show, and yes there were about 15 students per night who came for free
Motoki: why one less show?
Jessica: I want on the board
Mark: why were they allowed to come for free?
Jessica: those tickets were not sold, it would add up to about 60 students who came and it would put our attendance at the same as last year. 
PRO Eric: I think we need to remember that the attendance calculations are not correct so to penalized them wouldn’t be correct
SAFC: I went to one of the shows, given this, based on the attendance I saw, there was still a decrease overall just not as much as we believed before which why we agree to the 50 but not the 100
PRO Jessica: once again, there was not a decrease, 
Motoki: were those 60 students required to come?
Jessica: No
Mark: where does the money for those ticket sales go?
Jessica: the show fund
SAFC: if they are funded at the 50, it would be only a 4% decrease and if they receive the 100 it would be a little over a 1% increase. 
(motion to PQ)
(passes)
FMO
FMO: Motion to add 250$ 2 years ago there was a complication with our publication and this past year we didn’t get any funding but we still put out an online publication and the quality is there, we re built the org and we don’t have to deal with the same issues. We are asking for 250 from the old 700 to build up the publication. 
SAFC: we are comfortable with this
(pq)
(passes)
NCDC
Amalia: Motion for 360 for our storage. NCDC uses storage in a uhaul for decorations, in the past we funded this through general funds and this has drained our 00. We put a lot of decorations in here and so its saving money by not having to buy new decorations. 
SAFC: if you look at the events we have funded in full in the past, if you look at the 2011 number they were funded at a 5% increase and if they are funded this it would be a 7.! % increase which is higher than the amount we fund groups as a whole. 
Eric: do you know how much you would save on storage in the future? 
Amalia: we would be asking for 800 every year
Mark: whats the size of the storage facility
Amalia: 8x8, the smallest size
PRO Amalia: I would like to point out with storage, although were not a theatre group, they are funded in full. Were using it ever year. We wouldn’t be asking for an increase next year, it would be standardized. 
CON Anna: we already increased their storage funding by 200 dollars, although we understand the necessity, from the boards perspective, we have to take into consideration the percentage increase. Its not the best choice for all student groups
PRO eric: like any group on campus that provides entertainment, I think we should fully fund. I would like to see this group expand rather than grapple with expenses
Amalia: if our 00 gets depleted, we will have to start asking for thousands for decorations. we have 4000 in our 00. 
CON Ana: same thing, once again, we gave you an increase in storage and as a board we would ask you to come back and get an increase, we want to be fair to everyone and this is not how we fund. 
PRO Amalia: theater groups are funded in full for storage
PRO: during all the programming, our 00 has been considerably depleted. 
PRO Amalia: with that fixed cost and without the increase, this is something that has been happening in recent events because out events have gotten so huge we would like to continue to put on events of this caliber. 
CON Greg: theater groups prioritize storage over programming, we have already given the group a large increase
(pq)
(passes)
Amalia: motion to add 1500$ to project pumpkin
Some if not all of you might be wondering why I am dressed like I am from game of thrones, I do not know. Winter is coming, NCDC has always struggled with funding, and their hatred of candy. Ill take you to the candy shop, ill let you lick the lollipop go ahead SAFC don’t you stop. NCDC demonstrates the happiness candy brings. Project pumpkin needs this, do this so that the children of the world wont be denied a delight. As a parting sentiment I want to quote my favorite owl because I know many, how many licks does it take to get to the center of a tootsie pop, depending on how you vote, nobody may ever know. 
SAFC: we know facts, you may think this is a light matter. Funding candy risks children. No candy for da children. Though NCDC may put up a front of being happy caring people they are trying to manipulate us into giving them an illegal good that we may not fund. They are jeopardizing the children. SAF funds to purchase candy is an illegal use of our money, SAFC shall not fund food. There is not contractual need. When students pay the 150$ fee, it would STILL be illegal if it was used for students, but these students are not affiliated with the university and don’t pay the student activities fee. How does candy enrich the minds and benefit the minds of these kids. Why are these kids even eating candy in the first place? We should be helping these kids do good things with their minds and floss. In attempts to deepen the corruption of senate even further than it already is, they would rather see an extra 200 dollars in kids eating candy rather than bringing more kids here. In conclusion, the notorious BIG once postulated more money more problems. If any more money is going to NCDC we have a hell of a lot more problem. 
PRO Mark: I would like to contest the argument of the SAFC that candy is food. According to our govt june 1 2010, any sweet that has flour, cannot be taxed. Candy is not food and thus able to be funded by the SAFC
Girish: according to Wiki answers, it is edible to I think yes
CON Alex: I think its important that the people of the realm remember that the people of the realm are threatened
PRO Amalia: senate has always funded us candy money we have never asked for an increase and if there was ever extra we would give it to the rest of the people at the event. 
(PQ)
(passed)
Amalia: motion to add 750$ to busses, a bunch of kids come to NU to celebrate Halloween, these children come because they don’t have a place to trick or treat safely, it benefits NU as well, this past year we went 1000 over budget that we took from 00 because we don’t want to deny these kids. It’s the same number of kids we have brought every year it is an event that we put on for NU. 
Tori: since we funded candy, this would be a 15% increase, and we have already given a 500$ increase by transport alone. 
PRO Mark: as the in house environmentalists I hate buses and children. I think this is a great program
Amalia: we have been bringing the same number of children the past few years, how does this effect you guys? If we got the funded we were allocated now we would have to choose which children to say no to and then some NU volunteers wouldn’t be allowed to participate, we don’t want to turn people down its not in NCDCs mission. 
CON Tori: this event is directed towards kids and not an increase in NU students so it is not in our guidelines. 
PRO Steven: from a community relations standpoint, it makes NU students look really good and we can really use all the help we can get making us look good given that Dillo day is coming up. 
Amalia: we have seen an increase in student involvement in terms of booths. We have reached out more and more to student groups and there are large numbers of people who want to be chaperones, we asked the students what they want to see we have a huge haunted house and we would love to see a ton of students to come to help increase this event. 
CON Ana: steve brought up a great point with Com relations, SAF is not meant for community relations, it must be used primarily and directly benefit students. We all understand the NCDC is primarily philanthropic but the board cant treat groups differently based on their intent. Based on the scenario, even if youre bringing in the same amount of kids, there is no noticeable change. This is just a very high amount and we would fund any other group with this amount
Ian: amalia, would you seek to bring the same amount of kids depending on whether or not you were funding, you would see a drop
Amalia: yes, we would have to cut a sight. 
(PQ)
(does not pass)
Amalis: I would like to motion for 600, we would have to cut at least one if not more, that decision to cut all those little kids, to come and not allowing the NU volunteers to come and see the little kids go through project pumpkin. It is an event that all NU students can come with these kids and dress up
SAFC Tori: with this 600 dollars it would be a 13% increase, mayfest would have been a less than 1% increase, this group should not be viewed any differently, we are cause blind and you guys should as well. This event does not reach that many NU students. 
Sarah: how many Student Group Booths would have to be cut
Amalia: last year we had around 70 and we would have to cut at least 5 of them, 
Eric: how many kids wouldn’t be able to trick or treat?
Amalia: that would be 400 children
Motoki: how low would you go? Like the money you ask, 
Amalia: we are asking for the lower end, a bus is 250$
ERIC: how much money would you need to keep the buses and drop the student group. 
Amalia: we can sustain student groups with the number of students that are coming. 
Girish: if there are fewer kids coming, why would you have to cut student groups
Amalia: that number of kids, it wouldn’t make sense to have the booths there, the kids wouldn’t be able to hit them
Michele: is there any way for sights who can pay for their own busses, 
Amalia: most of them are non profit but we have one that does
X: where did you prioritize transport
Girish: you said, fewer kids means less groups?
X: it doesn’t mean that fewer kids would need less kids, cutting students cuts down on NU involvement, were not stating explicitly enough how many students participate in this. 
PRO eric: I understand that were not supposed to take a groups mind into account but these kids would be denied an opportunity to participate in Halloween. 
CON Ana: we don’t fund the Evanston children, that the plain black and white of it. We do fund NCDC, and I have been to project pumpkin and I understand but lets go over the facts that if you have less students come in, you have a choice that you would have to decrease the number of booths, that’s NCDCs choice, but as a board we don’t see that logic, they can still rent the rooms from Norris, its better for circulation, and from a different point, basically financial related, if they really want this funding, we would ask that they fundraise, we allocate funds based on need. We haven’t seen an increase in student volunteers, there are policy that we are trying to adhere to and if there is no change in the event than we cannot change funding and we have already increased transport a bit
PRO: the increase we have seen we are grateful for but we would like to clarify the difference btwn students and children, more children means more students, fundraising, we already put on 4 events a quarter and it was wasting time and resources of our organization. The value of it wasn’t raising enough money. We don’t have the institutional capacity to do so
PRO Amalia: were selling T-shirts which will cover that other costs, which would allow all the kids that came last year. 
PRO Brad: I think its absurd that bettering our image to the community doesn’t impact students .
Tori: point of info we DO fund them
CON Jeremy: I love NCDC I have been to project pumpkin, this is a big increase and the point of this is to benefit directly NU students, this has a SECONDARY benefit to NU students, this is NOT what we should be talking about for this long. 
PRO Mark: if we were supposed to abide EXATLY by the rules, we wouldn’t bring these proposals in front of senate. I think this is a clear case that were disagree with SAFC
CON Girish: you have to think about student in general not your personal opinion, not all students benefit or support this, saying that we should fund a philanthropic thing is not something the SAF is for, this is STILL a 13% increase and if it was any other group we would be having this
Its not a philanthropic event it’s a civil engagement
Community outreach benefits everyone
Girish: you might think that, I think its great that students have access to this but not everyone thinks so. 
(Vote)
(doesn’t pass)
Amalia: find it in your hearts to pass this, it is the same amount every year. 
Girish: we have made all the points we want to make it is a 10% increase which is too much. 
X:What is the role of student groups in this event
Amalia: groups can go set up booths, or be a chaperone, you can also just come attend
Ian: has NCDC ever been awarded anything for the ongoing community service event at the student recognition banquet
Brad: is there any level you would support
Girish: what we have recommended
(PQ)
(passes)
Ani lays down the law on guidelines, “we’re not going to go to another add round. The second pass shall continue until the amendment pool is drained of funds.”
“What am I supposed to do, Girish?” Tensions mount in the room.
Ani goes through groups in the second add round
Motion to revisit A&O
(second)
A&O wants to split their honorarium into two events, one event would be 55,000, and the other would be 22,683.14
Motoki: don’t we have to create a new line for this event?
Ani: precedence says you can just split, were just going to vote to split the honorarium. 
Logan: there is a strong precedent for us to have 2 speakers, this is the split of the honorarium we do spend a little more money on the first one, 
SAFC:
(motion to PQ): split the honorarium
(passes )
Logan: motion to add all production costs and duplicate that into the second event: 4655$ everything you see in line items would be the cost for the first show
Ian: in the past where did that money come from? In the past we tried to shave it off of other production costs,
Girish: if they don’t spend the money it would go back to the SAF
Motoki: what kind of increase was this?
Girish: a lot 
(PQ)
(passes)
(motion to end funding)
passes
Ani: increasing election transparency, I know were all tired
Steven: I wont rehash its in the agenda, basically it will require anyone who is looking to run to declare interest in running to shine a light on pre campaign on the election, its not a punitive thing it is just a re clarification 
to save all of you some hassle, we want to table this for a week
(passed)
Brad: motion to table old business 
	•	
	•	
	•	
