ASG Senate Minutes
02-13-13

	•	Executive Board Reports
	•	Victor: There will be discussion about the Activities Fee, including a Green fee, with Gene Sunshine- I'll update you guys next week. Also planning a leadership symposium in May, would invite 40 different student groups to give opportunity to transition for Presidents and student group leaders.
	•	Cats Care will be releasing t-shirt order form- please order one!
	•	Harlem Shake Northwestern being planned- Burgie and Willie are secured. Still determining location and time- will let you know. It's a quick fad probably and won't happen if it doesn't happen this weekend. Please join in!
	•	Brad: There's a link to a spreadsheet in my exec board report with a list of all the ideas that don't have a response on Campus Voice. There's a lot of stuff on there so be sure to look at it, there are some cool ideas on there.
	•	Carly: Student groups Senate seat apps are due this Saturday, so send them out if you haven't already. Took on a new member of my committee organizing coffee chats. Please respond promptly when they contact you.
	•	Alex: Will be talking to JPK on Friday about Therapy Dogs. Went through Sargent today and will be talking to JPK about opening up study area in CCI section of Sargent hall for a 24 hour space
	•	David: Will be presenting Book Swap soon- otherwise, Cab Corner is all done, Norris wrote a contact for us, just need to submit it to the vendors. Unofficial Student Guide is probably my favorite project, I know I've been pushing it a lot, but we need more information to meet the threshold to fully launch the site. Please pester your friends to do it because it could be something really special
	•	Neil: Not much else to add other than what's in my report- let me know if you have any questions
	•	Ethan: HEY EVERYBODY. Read my exec board report, excited about Book Swap
	•	Steven: Look at my exec board report and fill out Illinois Voter Registration Form.
	•	Brandon: If you’re planning on bringing emergency legislation, please let me know- I can make sure it gets reviewed by Rules and saves us all time.
	•	Ani: We do student group apportionment every year- first time doing this in Winter.
	•	Brad: These are due a week from this Saturday.
	•	Special Order: SAFC Misconduct Investigations
	•	Girish: I was here two weeks ago about three investigations- we've heard all three cases and ultimately voted to pass all three misconducts. As far as the process, none of our recommendations are binding. I have 15 minutes for each case (won't use all that time) anyone who wants to speak up can- 1 hour total of allotted time, probably won't use all that time, but please feel free to speak up.

	•	Girish: Starting with College Feminists- there's a University Policy where you cannot advertise for a speaker before getting contracts signed. Somehow, their schedule was leaked to the press and the event was publicized across campus before contracts were finalized. The board deemed this a misconduct and created three recommendations to prevent future misconducts:
	•	Co chairs attend Winter Quarter audit
	•	Sex week planning committee come up with detailed timeline of planning the event.
	•	Report progress on that timeline to their executive board.
	•	Ani: Any appeals for this case?
	•	Ani: Seeing none, we'll move into a question period
	•	Nouha: Did the University do anything to address this infraction separate from this process?
	•	Girish: No.
	•	Ani: Moving to a discussion period.
	•	Ani: Moving to a vote on granting College Feminists a financial misconduct.
	•	Vote- passed unanimously. Misconduct granted.

	•	Girish: Next misconduct was for AATE- Coffee event with ASA didn't happen. When groups are funded through the SAF- groups are expected to hold that event to ensure that money allotted isn't wasted. Three recommendations from the SAFC:
	•	Won't be funded by SAF again until it has been put on successfully.
	•	Need to present a document for contingency plan to deal with programming problems
	•	President and Treasurer should read guidelines- if don't won't receive funding
	•	Ani: Any appeals for this case?
	•	Ani: Seeing none, we'll move into a question period
	•	Hannah: If an event can't happen, is there any way a group can come to SAFC to avoid a misconduct?
	•	Girish: It'll always be a violation of our guidelines, but if they come to us early on and let us know, no significant 
	•	Ian: How to test competency of President and Treasurer
	•	Girish: Two ways- online quiz of our guidelines, or simply talk to officers
	•	Ani: Move to discussion
	•	Ani: Move to a vote on granting AATE a financial misconduct.
	•	Vote- passed unanimously. Misconduct granted.

	•	Girish: Our final misconduct is for Fall Mixer- event was funded by us for 2 years, but money was never used. Investigation was held to try and figure out what was happening- found out there's been a lot of turnover over the past couple years and group officers didn't realize money was there and didn't see urgency in spending money. Our primary recommendation for NPHC is:
	•	Bi-quarterly audits of NPHCs audits by all group officers
	•	Ani: Any appeals for NPHC?
	•	Ani: Any questions?
	•	Ani: Now moving to a discussion period.
	•	Ani: Moving to a vote on granting NPHC a financial misconduct.
	•	Vote- passed unanimously. Misconduct granted
	•	General Order: Bookswap Presentation
	•	David: I'll let KC take it away- BookSwap was pretty awesome and had universal brand equity, but had a bunch a of problems and a lackluster interface that wasn't sustainable
	•	KC: I'm KC, I'm on the services committee- BookSwap is like a craigslist for students, except only for books. We pull from the bookstore course database- you can type in the course number and can buy or sell books for that class. This system prevents duplicate postings and makes things nice, neat, and organized. As David mentioned, this is a great resource for students that's faster, locally based and more convenient than marketplaces like ebay. BookSwap only works if people are using it. It'll be a hard launch since sellers won't be attracted if buys aren't around, and buys wont come if sellers aren't buying, so we need a large number of both buys and sellers to come onto the website at launch- please list your books here once it launches
	•	David: Hoping to have website glossy and polished by next week, but wanted to give you guys a heads up- in the next 7 days, please search for old books and get ready to make a little money off them.
	•	Ani: Any questions?
	•	Alex Lower: Can you search by department or course number?
	•	KC: Yeah, you can search by just about any metric (ISBN, department, course number) except course title, which is standard for most bookstores.
	•	General Order: Laptop Chargers Announcement
	•	Ian: Had meeting with head of Mudd Library- Mudd sees half the volume of people that Main sees, so we're recommending that 3 of the 10 laptop chargers be sent to Mudd. Also, regarding PC chargers, we found a PC charger line that works with most PCs, plan on coming to Senate to get more money to buy more chargers from the project pool
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Abby: How did you decide on the 7/3 division?
	•	Ian: It'd make sense to have half the chargers in Mudd, but PCs seem to be used more in Mudd and makes more logical sense this way.
	•	Patrick: It's a stretch to assume Mudd library users use PCs more often
	•	Ian: Makes more sense to err lower since we haven't had chargers here before, and chargers are used in library in double digits.
	•	Motoki: How do we know this is the most optimal way to split up the charger distribution?
	•	Ian: We don't know the optimal amount at main library, but all of the chargers are being used on most occasions, so there is optimization.
	•	Rebecca: Have you looked into lowering the time that you can rent out chargers? 3 hours is the current time limit and seems long
	•	Ian: No- this committee has pretty much run its course with utility- we can look into it and maybe incorporate it into next week's bill.
	•	General Order: Dining Hall Reform Working Group Presentation
	•	McKenzie: We formed this working group to look into evaluating dining hall hours, including COFHE research.
	•	Petros: Did COFHE research, collected data based on number of undergrads and number of dining halls and hours. In terms of our consortium, the undergraduate populations have a wide range from 1,300 to 13,000- varies per dining hall location. We have around 1500 students per dining location, and NU is the third largest school in COFHE, so our ratio is actually very favorable. Dining hall hours don't vary that much, but don't extend more than 3 or 4 hours, just change in when they start and end.
	•	Connor: We approached JPK and Steve Mangan, approached them with this information and our initial goals. They're looking at utilizing this data- it was comprehensive, they identified some complications with shifting dining hall hours- like union contracts and agreements and the fact that people do use the dining halls during early hours. We wanted to use this working group to make this need known and it is now known.
	•	Ani: Any questions about any of this?
	•	Brad: Have you done any research into pricing and the number of dining halls served, relative to costs that makes overhead huge?
	•	Connor: 6 dining halls is a lot, we talked about this.
	•	Petros: Having so many dining halls just generates a higher cost in general
	•	David: Brad brings up a good point and there are other issues, will your working group be addressing them?
	•	McKenzie: There are other issues that we could work on or discuss- we mainly wanted to focus on the original purpose of the working group.
	•	David: Do you have ideas for what we can do moving forward, or is waiting the only option for right now?
	•	Mckenzie: We probably don't have enough to bring up right now, and with these two issues, I feel as if we've reached our potential.
	•	Old Business: SR1213-09: Brady Scholars Senior Project: Hoop House
	•	Ummul: Here to request support for the Brady Scholar's Senior Project to create a hoop house that will produce fresh produce to Northwestern through an organization called New Leaf Urban Gardens. To clarify on the tomatoes- they produced 7,000 pounds of tomatoes in their current hoop house. Some updates- we met with Steve Mangan with Sodexho, and they've expressed interest May be able to use greenhouse near the Evanston art house to start. With ASG support, it's more likely this'll go through.
	•	Ani: Any questions?
	•	Ian: You mentioned building this on Norris East Lawn last week- is this still on the table?
	•	Ummul: Rob Whittier expressed concern with the aesthetic aspect of this
	•	Abby: Did you look to the area next to Ford?
	•	Ummul: Lot of events held there, but haven't brought it up, so it's possible!
	•	Chris: What's the timeline?
	•	Ummul: We're all seniors, would begin building in spring if everything worked out, maybe extend into summer if necessary.
	•	Jane: Any other areas besides Ford and Plex?
	•	Ummul: Can't build on field- might build on basketball courts or remove 3 or 4 parking spaces, or behind one of the buildings near plex.
	•	Mark: Motion to amend, important to keep this resolution within the frame of ASG- need to change be it further resolved
	•	Vote- approved. Legislation is amended.
	•	Ani: Moving to a vote on the legislation.
	•	Vote- approved unanimously. Legislation is passed.
	•	 Special Order: Senator Break-out Session
	•	Carly: As you know, Operations has been hard at work to get an idea of how this will go- we're looking for goals and a deeper more holistic understanding of who we are. We thought that a focus group might be a good idea of determining this. Your names will be kept confidential, just want to get an idea of how you guys feel. We'll be breaking up into small discussion groups led by the OMs.
	•	New Business: SL1213-22: Parliamentary Body Code Legislation
	•	Lauren: This bill is in two parts- the first has the elimination of the Treasurer position. The Treasurer position is superfluous because of the FVP. The Treasurer's responsibilities will be rolled into the EVP's position. The second part of this bill moves the caucus whips up into the parliamentary body.
	•	Sarah: The Treasurer position has traditionally had less work than the rest of the executive board- moving up the caucus whips addresses any loss in power from the parliamentary body that removing the treasurer would cause.
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Ian: Should the whips be moved up regardless of whether or not the treasurer is removed?
	•	Sarah: Yes- this codifies existing practices.
	•	Dana: Is the inactivity of the treasurer due to the position or the people who've been selected for it?
	•	Sarah: It's a problem with the position- these issues have been encountered almost every year.
	•	Lauren: MLK day budget is being reduced, further reducing the treasurer's role.
	•	Ian: A concern in my caucus is that the EVP responsibilities have been widely expanded-how to ensure that the EVP can handle this work.
	•	Sarah: Brad can speak best to this.
	•	Brad: The reasoning is that- we created the Chief of Staff position that allows us to do things concerned with human resources like surveys that we couldn't do before. The chief of staff has taken up a lot of the human resources aspects of my position freeing me up to take on other projects, like campus voice.
	•	Rebecca: With the additions to this position, do you think this will be accessible to those outside of ASG?
	•	Sarah: Yes- the treasurer is traditionally someone from outside of ASG as things are now.
	•	Motoki: Does the exec board have business that they vote on?
	•	Brad: We have the ability to vote on things, but everything needs Senate approval, so we usually don't.  In practice, we've simply either agreed or come to Senate presenting both perspectives on the issue.
	•	Mike: We have a treasurer who does 3-4 hours per week now, would the 3 hours make a difference for the EVP? Would this duty deter someone for running for EVP who would be a great candidate?
	•	Brad: We wrote into the legislation that the EVP has to go through SOFO training and can use the FVP as a resource. Typically, a freshman has run for the position outside of ASG who may be financially inclined, but has learned on the job. That practice will remain steady.
	•	Sarah: The EVP's job is to deal with internal workings of ASG and working with internal finance goes along with that
	•	Mike: The Treasurer is on the Senate side- do you think that absorbing this position destroys a check of power?
	•	Lauren: It's in our constitution that anything over $250 has to be approved by Senate
	•	Brad: Also added in that a quarterly summary of spending has to be presented to Senate.
	•	Motoki: Would these caucus whips be sitting in all the exec board meetings?
	•	Sarah: Just one weekly exec board meeting
	•	Lauren: As whips, we interact with Senators more than Speaker- Senate voice is enhanced in this way.
	•	Mike: If the role is being deleted- have we thought about changing things around to still increase transparency?
	•	Sarah: We're not getting rid of the Treasurer position to increase transparency necessarily, mainly focused on the fact that the Treasurer doesn't do much work.
	•	New Business: SL1213-23: Parliamentary Body Constitutional Amendment
	•	Lauren: Basically the same thing- the Treasurer position is in the Constitution so we'd need to remove it here as well.
	•	Brad: Also adds in the caucus system, which isn't currently mentioned in the Constitution and is vague in the code. The forum will be this coming Tuesday at 7pm.
	•	David H (point of information): Another point that needs to be addressed out of pragmatism is that the Treasurer doesn't do much to represent Senate- and the two Treasurers I've known haven't really gone out of their way to defend Senate.
	•	Brad: Additionally, the Treasurer is overseen by Victor, not by Ani. Senate elects them, they're pseudo on the parliamentary body, but Victor oversees them. This fixes this inconsistency in our code.
	•	Ani: Any questions?
	•	Mike: Has any COFHE research been done in terms of how the treasurer works at other universities?
	•	Brad: We've done an extensive amount of research on other institution student government executive boards- it's significantly larger than other executive boards. Every treasurer is done differently at different schools- but generally, other boards that elevate the treasurer to the same level have larger responsibilities to match.
	•	New Business: SL1212-24: Free James Foley
	•	Ani: This is the second time that I have brought legislation to the floor regarding James Foley. He was captured detained. He was released safely, he was a reporter known for his unbiased reporting, after his release he went to Syria and was abducted by unidentified men and it has been over 80 days, this bill asks us as members of the ASG, to spread the word. He is a wildcat, we need to get people to sign the bill, at least people know. It would mean a lot to his family. There is a petition on the site, its in Arabic and English, that’s kind of it. I would deeply appreciate it to move it to old business.
	•	Ian: When you say all available resources and channels, what do you mean?
	•	Ani: Daily, sign the apeal, post on Facebook, at the discretion of the VP. The reason it is so vague is that I don’t know what the situation is or will be as things go forward.
	•	Mark: you mentioned  points, finding James Foley and then supporting the family
	•	Ani: I have not spoken to the family at all, I believe Medill has a link, I think that is the link. I think his brother is setting up the site and making sure the site is publicized
	•	Evan: printing flyers, and you said you didn’t know how you would be asking us to commit,
	•	Ani: I would leave that up to Brad and Becca, you can give input, if flyers are not the best, we have online resources, I don’t want to dictate what PR methods we use.
	•	Mark: Motion to make this old business.
	•	Vote- passed unanimously. Legislation is now old business.
	•	Mark: Motion to previous question.
	•	Vote- passed unanimously . Legislation is approved.
	•	New Business: SR1213-10: Administration Transparency
	•	Harrison: I'm the Senator for mid-quads- some people in my hall com brought this issue up to me and hoped that ASG could take up this issue. Rabbi Klein has been hugely successful and the Chabad house has been great for Northwestern as a whole. A lot of stakeholders are involved- namely, university staff- we simply want transparency to make information known to students. The second major stakeholder is to advocate for transparency on behalf of students and alumni. We're not taking a side, but Chabad sees this as positive for getting more students informed on the issue
	•	Ani: Questions?
	•	Ian: You say this seeks transparency, yet in the last clause, it endorses affiliation, which calls for action?
	•	Harrison: We say that we want to open channels of communication and promote transparency- we could amend next week if you feel this language takes a side.
	•	Sarah: Isn't there an issue with the lawsuit that the university cannot be more transparent?
	•	Harrison: Hoping to access public information- there should be some documents available that are public and want the university to promote the idea that they are amenable to being transparent on this issue.
	•	Dana: What do you mean by transparency- what more are you asking for?
	•	Harrison: The information might be able to find by someone who wants to find it, but it should be available to the Northwestern  public at large.
	•	Brad: Is it out of line to direct questions to northwestern admin in the room?
	•	Ani: Typically allowed.
	•	Brad: Natalie, can you verify what information the university can share?
	•	Natalie: Not trying to hide anything- anything we released would be scrutinized by the court. It's your job as a concerned student to find public info0rmation, not the university's job to do so, from a legal standpoint, it looks bad if the university publically releases information. Rabbi Klein himself has released a lot of info about this.
	•	Petros: I don't understand the purpose of this legislation, it seems muddled and the title doesn't seem to fit.
	•	Harrison: I think that since this is a constituency need, I want to follow through on their original vision and have the bill more focused on Chabad house- we could definitely change this through the amendment process
	•	Ian: Would it be more expedient for you all to investigate the information themselves rather than urging the administration?
	•	Harrison: Interested parties feel they should take a stance on this- we can take that route if that happens, but as things stand, this will only happen through ASG not other avenues.
	•	Ani: This is new business, will be discussed as old business next week
	•	 New Business: B-Status Funding for Spring 2013
	•	Ani: Funding is new business this week, will be old next week. Look through the packet, especially if you're part of this group
	•	Motoki: If you have any groups concerned about this, SGC will look over this again next Monday before it becomes old business. Please let group representatives to contact their GEs if they want to appeal.
	•	Good of the Order & Announcements
	•	David: 23 days till DM- will have valentines day party
	•	On 8pm on Saturday, there'll be a comedy night with groups like Mee-ow and titanic
	•	Tori: A&O and happiness club will be putting on wreck it ralph
	•	Mike: Off campus ambassadors is holding a dodge ball event for off campus students, Saturday 4-6 Blomquist
	•	Lauren: Tomorrow McSA and Alianza is hosting event in the lake room for . Alianza and FMO is having a meeting surrounding Michael Collins and the racial incident
	•	Mark: Divestment petition hit 1000 signatures. Response has been great
	•	Rebecca: Apps for ASB is due tonight- great experience
	•	NCDC and CCE are planning event called faces of homeless youth, stop by before senate! It's in the wildcat room, next Wednesday
	•	Sofia: Discover Islam week next week- cosponsorship 

Senate Adjourned
