Senate 4/25
Ani: on the agenda tonight we have special visitors coming in, we have to breeze through exec reports. 
Charles Katzenmeyer is going to be coming in and talking very soon, 
David: two important announcements, the first is about committee recruitment, we would love to get more senators involved, they will come out tonight and be due Sunday
Sunday from 2-4 we will be hosting a brainstorming session and I would like to see a large turn out from senate, we will be looking at what services and resources we need to incubate, this is a really valuable opportunity or if you have be unsatisfied by something. I have made this point before, but as we create greater organizational efficacy I would really like to see you guys show up to this 
This will also go out, we will be guarding the rock for JobCat, you just passed the PR requirement, it’s a good opportunity for you guys to knock that out of the way. 
Becca: PR is brainstorming new methods for PR and so I will be having office hours in Norbucks on Friday to think of new ways to get ASG’s message out there!
Ani: I would like to introduce Mr. Katzenmeyer
Katzenmeyer: I am so grateful, alum, I have had a carrier in non-profits but for last 15 min I have worked at museums. I was president of my fraternity and several other activities I have looked for ways to stay involved. Keeping seniors involved seems to bee something that NU needs to work on. 
I am here to talk about the alumni association, each of you is here representing an organization. I am on a barn storm tour to hear as many students as possible before I turn the reigns over, I want to hear as many students as possible, so this is something I can do now, the reason we are so interested in you. NU changes. Every 10 years or so it becomes completely different. More than anything you all represent something very different. Every year our freshman class out does the one before. Were a hot school, you all are hot students, and you came to NU and I am thrilled to see that the “bitching” factor is a thing of the past. Before people had a lot to complain about here, maybe it came with the time but you guys seem to be more focused on what college is about. You are all different people. This is a far more… when I was an ASG officer, this is a far more diverse campus, and this is so much our stength now at NU, we are looking for more international students. Things are always changing and for us to be relevant as the alumni association, hopefully we will keep you all connected to NU. We want to know what you guys think we should be doing. What is our future? What is our stratigeic plan? This is all about you and the student that will come. Here are some of our programs:
A weekly e-mail NAA stat, tell me that’s not annoying? It’s a quick read please don’t unsubscribe we want to get our mechanism out there
We work with the NU class alliance
We have 2 student directors and were taking those applications right now and its great perspective about the university it’s a lot of fun we don’t push you hard so if any of you are thinking about it
Have any of you done dinner with 12 strangers? Was that a good experience?
We do career programs, were doing anything we can that you need. 
What do students need from the alumni association
If you were alums what would you be doing for the association
Steven: one of the things I think students want to see is more access to alumni as far as work, there has been a few complaints as far as UCS career services 
K: there have been plenty of alumn that have signed up for Career net, and there must be thousands of them that want to talk to students. I think they would be thrilled to have you talk to them personally. What im hearing about is that we haven’t gotten the word out, we do resume prep, and mock interviews. How about beyond careers though? 
Lauren: we have an event called NU gives back and not too many came so I think that would be a great way for alumni to get involved, 
K: the local alumni group in Chicago, we have some staff on sight that deal with that and I wrote it down. 
Matt: im about to be one of the 8 alumni who is going to be angry at everything, so maybe just speaking for the people in ASG who participate in trying to effect policy, it would be great to have some of the alum support some of the policy were trying to pass like the new student center, it is something that would effect alumni. 
K: no we had Norris and you have to have it to. Morty hears that in a big way. He gets you guys he likes you, he seems to have everyone over for dinner and if you want to, let someone know. He gets the community gathering thing in a big way. Integrating the experiences at NU and getting people to come together a little bit more. That has to do with physical spaces. I sense that the area Morty is looking at is where Kellog is now, and that building is to be retrofitted and that might be a good space for people to come together. 
Lauren: it would be nice to have info from alum to hear about what Student Groups they were in, it would be good to know all the ASG alums and theater groups, 
K: we have some of this, obviously not complete bc they have to fill it out themselves, if you were to talk to Heather Nicetep, she would be more than happy to meet with you. That is something we have been working on, how do we make these connections:
Girish: in terms of reaching out to alumni there are so many different resources that provide job prep, so something students want is a centralized resource, like UCS. 
K: our careers and networking committee is tring to add net benefit, we can replicate what theyre doing but we have to augment that and if there is something they are not doing we want to know about it. 
Being involved costs you nothing and you can really make a difference, 
Your point is not lost on me
RHA/RCS: biomedical engineer, alumni are build into the program, where we have to call them and talk to them sometimes, I don’t know how many programs have that, but I think that would be a great thing to have
K: that is the future of education, there is not only one way to learn, I am thrilled to have that in the biomed program. The opportunity to come into contact with a real student like you is a luxury. 

Ani: Senators are in the middle section of the room
A really quick note on whats happening this everning, at 8 well have an open forum about diversity inclusion, we have less than half an hour to get through all of this. I would like to get an update from dorm conditions group. A working group is a group of two or three senators who come together on an issue
Ed: we got assigned to this back in Feb and when we finally came to the conclusion that we wanted to release a survey, it was the end of the quarter. We met with TI and were gonna release a survey on facilities and a sense of community. For facilities it would be a qualitative perspective, there are problems we see every day that the administration doesn’t see. Small things like that can be important. We are encouraging everyone in this room to take the survey. 
Mark: how are you distributing it and when is it going out?
Ed: we are sending it to area coordinators and hall govts tonight
Ian: why are you 
Ed: that wasn’t something we considere Pain Kirshmeyer asked us to do it. People outside of RHA RCB might have a good understanding of community. And She wants us to do. 
Matt: who is analyzing results
Ed: between us and Student life committee, 
Matt: definitely talk to alex, we have worked in the past with ISBE and they can crunch the numbers and also work with PR to make this a campaign so we can make this something everyone fills out
Ani: ed and prathusha have done a ton of work without help from the exec board. Moving forward we will give them all the resources they need. 
The cabinet was selected last evening so we are going to swear in exec. We interviewed candidates and we decided to reappoint the candidates who already held the positions. 
Steven: I have done a lot of thinking about this position, I think we need to focus more on civic engagement and sort of jettison and move event s such as big bight night and housing committee to another committee and focus more on monthly voting registration and trying to organize meetings of housing association and try and show them that were actually concerned bc next year is an election year for a lot of alderman and we really need to have a community relations arm and we need to make sure we have the right officials in office
Ian: how are you going to make sure the old programs don’t suck
Steven: I have already prepared for that, and created outlines for step by step outlines to make sure that doesn’t happen. It should come together
Ian: and you have someone in mind to deal with that
Steven: yes David has agree because it is a service. And he is super competent
X: who will do the housing fair? 
Steven: if big bight night goes well, services ight, maybe we will still do it
Ani: if there are no objections we will move to a vote
(confirmed)
Up next PR
Becca: I have had a really good time being PR VP and I want to continue doing what were doing and making ASG a bigger name on campus and help students understand what we do for them
Henry: will you be sending out ASG weekly’s?
Ani: it has been sent out in every week
If there are no objections well move to a vote
(confirmed)
Up next Ethan
Ethan: hey im the VP of Tech! I am so excited that I actually get to do this again, we had one applicant including myself, a year ago, I applied and I had no idea of what I was getting into, I was in a play and I was really busy and I had had rehersals, and I figured, hey what the heck and sure enough I was up here, and I had no idea what ASG tech did or needed and now a year later, there is still so much more to come, like a new websight, so yeah that’s one of my projects, maybe redesigning book swap or MyNorthwestern, a new way of getting students together. There is no centralized location for Student Groups, before I just talk you up again yeah, Ethan Ramba
(confirmed)
Ani: David you have 30 seconds
David: yeah hopefully you guys have been able to see what I have done this year next year we look to maintain the new services we have launch and shift some of the resources I do have. We have the unique advantage of existing relations with city officials, otherwise we think we can really capitalize on that. 
(confirmed)
Ani: we have campaign promises
Victor: this has all the campus wide elected positions with a list f projects of what we promised and timelines. 
Ani: any questions?
Victor: we will be presenting after our exec retreat
Ian: you as an exec board member, what recourse would you like us to take if we are unhappy with your performance, i
Victor: email us, keep asking us questions, communication is the best way
Ani: you guys oversee everything exec does, barring all else, impeach them
April: will we be updated after the timeline?
Mark: there is a line about that, after they give their initial update, they will have to report again
Victor: I feel like that would just be more comprehensive exec board reports
(motion to previous question)
(passed)
Ani: NU gives back project pool requests which is new business
Lauren Saunders and Rebecca Rego: were both on the exec board, NU gives back is a campus wide day of service for students faculty staff and alumni, we will have fourty sights this year. This expands to all of NU’s campus, the idea is to unite as a campus and then to the broader community. We did apply for funding, for B status, and were denied. Although we are not technically an organization, we are well aware that uniting students is an objective of ASG and that is what were looking to do. In order to put on this event, we need an additional 1000 dollars. 
The money would be going to transportation, especially student groups on campus. 
Lauren: you are a student group with T status,
David: just like the SAF can go to food if senate approves it, this money is at your digression, it does come from the SAF, you can do what you want with it
Lauren: do you have a budget break down? Would it just be the school buses from last year?
Lauren: if you guys do give us this money, your logo would be on all of our merch, 
Ani: this is new business, well bring this back up next week. 
Ani: what were having now, is a general order in senate held for the most important pressing issues in our community. Were going to have a session led by Haley Stevens and explain how were going to go with this as we move
Haley: thank you for being here, we appreciate it. It is a very important conversation to have it, I am the chair of the ASG diversity committee in response to events that have happened and although there have been many events, this has been consistent with events from the past year. Suck as the black face incident of 2009, and then fast forward to this winter, when a Latina woman was mocked, there was a forum following that in January and a lot of groups began to ban together that wanted to see chang across campus. I am a member of the coalition of colors and we decided to hold a forum with the president and provost and we set up a lot for ourselves, there was a lot for students and administrators to accomplish. We formed a petition 1. An academic requirement, it is not new, it would be a cultural or social inequality requirement. It is very much in development. 2. The chief diversity officer, someone who people could go to if there was an issue on campus with all the resources. Ensure that everyone has a diversity plan 3. Multicultural student affairs- oversees over 3000 students and has about 40 dollars per student and it is not nearly enough and were looking to add LGBT resources. Were looking for MSA to have more resources. 4. Minority enrollment: were looking  for more help for Latina and Black ambassadors. 5. A re vamped diversity plan, and the already established diversity plan 6. The diversity report: created last year with the help of the admin and it assessed almost every aspect with hoe the school works with diversity. We would present it by april 30 and in return the admin would release the report. A few days ago, you can view the report in the provost’s office, but it was not public info. It is going to be made officially public, VP TI will talk about that in a moment, it will soon be made available online
Dr. Telles-Irvin: good evening, It is unfortunate that I have to see you on this evening dealing with a difficult situation that occurred this weekend and I am here to tell you about what the admin is already doing. The report is already up on the site, so that you have an opportunity to look it up. This report was one of many that was done in making strategy for the university. They were asked to put together a report that was going to be used for those who were creating the plan, no made for the public. You requested it and therefore it is made available to you. 
I am going to go through the requests that have been made of the university
The academic requirement
The provost  talked to everyone about how we can creatively deal with some kind of training around cultural competence, at the same time Weinberg has taken the lead, mary fin, 
We want it to be getting at changing behavior and changing atitutde, what is the most meaningful way to go about this subject matter? It is something that is going to take time
The faculty own the curriculum, we have to rely on the,
There is a curriculum committee made of faculty and students
That is happening but it is going to take time
Chief diversity officer, 
He has appointed Donna who has the title of Diversity Provost who will be working full time on diversity matters and will be reporting directly to the Provost and they will be the chief diversity officer. She will chair and oversee the diversity committee and hold the admin accountable as well as bringing in speakers
I plan on working very closely with her
Multicultural student affairs resources
There will be an analysis on the MSA budget
I have reorganized student affairs
I have brought together 5 areas for this new assistant VP, we may need to redistribute what MSA does to people who can do it more efficiently
We will then determine if they need more funding
Enrollment, 
At least for the coming year, the number of deposits has gone beyond what we exected, this means we expect underrepresented offers could be greater as well but we wont have these numbers in place till fall
Concrete goals and objectives that subcommittees that will be held accountable
The other two things I want to share is the police advisory board, I want to re create that, 
I have been in the process of asking individuals to apply, and I have almost completed appointing this board
The dean, and I have been working on a bias incident reponce portal, if an incident comes up there will be a way for us to know about it
We want a model where the students themselves can respond to incidences. 
I am here to make a difference and I can assure you that we are very committed to this issue and we need your cooperation and ideas. I hope that has answered some of your questions. Im hoping we can continue to work together in the future
Haley: so I want to continue to remind you all that this is a wonderful student and administrative victory and you all should be proud

We need to remember that this is only a small part of what we need to do, we all need to now engage eachother to properly have these conversations so it is an open honest campus 

Stand against racism starting at 1245 this Friday, all along ridge, we will be making a wall, a stand against racism, to meet at ridge, and from there we would like to march through the arch and up to tech and we would like through out the next few weeks to encourage all forms of conversations, we really want to encourage honest and open dialoged and for students to begin to feel comfortable
I would also like to remind you all, thatthis could have been anyone, or any organization campus and any of you could have been the target of this so please thing critically and thouroughly about the way you engage, lets truly make this one northwestern

Matt Dolf (pres of ski team): I have spoken to some of you in this room, first I would like to reiterate my apology to everyone in the NU community, what happened was obscene and cannot be stood for, we don’t endorse what we did and we hope to continue the conversation. I am here tonight speak, we have members of our exec board, we will continue to be here until our invitation is revokes, and we would like to move forward from this and use this as a lesson and use it as a tool to move forward from this situation. Thank you for letting us have a voice, we appreciate the opportunity, you didn’t have to do that. Thank you for the momentum and we would like to keep it going, things need to change for real .thank you. 
ANi: we are going to move into an open student forum, this is senate, the ultimate place of student expression, please keep your comment civil, were not looking for attacks and those will not be tolerated, and I will be enforcing that. We are looking for constructive tangible action. What you feel campus can do. I see leaders from across campus, a gathering I havnt seen in my time here. So keep that in mind
Kellen: we handed out a list of questions in anticipation of this, we figured we could help aid the conversation. 
Ani: were looking for dialogue, a back and forth. 
Kellen: in regards to the chief diversity officer, what qualifies donna cuerdero, and we ask this because we wonder what is the process 
Ani: this is a student to student conversation, PTI is not a part of this discussion. Dr. Teas Irvin is observing
Haley: the administration has told us how our questions have already been answered, there is a time and place for her to answer
Victor: she seems pretty great, obviously its tough bc the admin has been slow and it doesn’t make sense to shoot blank questions, there are 5working groups under the new committee and there has been change obviously the weels are slow to move but that’s where we come in so that we can develop a comprehensive platform, jazzy and haley were happy about it. 
Jazzy: I think we have a right to talk about it, this diversity report is saying a lot of the things we have been talking about. Why now?
X: I think if this is truly a student to student forum then we should hae kept the admin out of it
Ani: she is guest of the senate, pleae respect that going forward. 
X: we want a date for when these questions will be answered
Haley: I cannot say definatley, but I would like that to be next month, I want to be sure that we have every administrator that we want to be there to be there
Dallas: there is a lot of frustration in the room, and for me the whole interpersonal relationship thing doesn’t mean much, I don’t pay students, I pay the admin. I remain 6% of the populations, my tutition dollar funds parties like this, I am a customer, if I buy a car with three weels they don’t say be patient
Tyrus: using this forum to speak to the students I am disappointed in the attitude that people have taken w the administration when they are releasing info we have been asking for for a year. Just bc they are busy is not an excuse. We have to start demanding things and demanding things fast, can I ask for… give us a concrete answer, theyre schedules work around us, not the other way around. Were the faces of this university, that comes with a power. We tell you we want cultural classes, you can make it happen, use the power you have to get the results you want and stop sitting down on your ass. 
X: was the report supposed to be published and when did the students first ask for it? 
Haley: I am not positive, it was known that it had been in progress, we formally asked for it about 4 weeks ago, 
Paul: I sat up one night looking at old diversity reports and I think the last one was 2009, that was a faculty diversity report but it was just promoted. It was just withheld.
Haley: That looked ONLY at faculty, 
X:I would like people to ask why there havnt been more comprehensive ones. 
X: I think its great having students talking to other students, I think its silly to put up beaurocratic walls when the person is sitting in the same room and not be able to talk to them, I am really hapy the VP is here but I think its silly that we should have to wait to talk. I think we as students, that they claim to be here to help us learn and grow and the fact that the administrators couldn’t make it here with all these students have made it a priority to be here… 
Haley: what I mean by a future forum, is that a time when they are in town, they are rather far away right now
Catherine: smething really important in theater is to have trust in the leaders and directors, I think that if you don’t have that then the people in charge, cant do their best. I really appreciate you two taking all the complaints from the student body and you are just students and I appreciate your taking the initiative. (clapping)
X: I am very disappointed, this has been an attack on the admin, there were many opportunities to talk to the admin and nobody was there, there have been many opportunities and many people who are attacking the admin now were not there. 
Sophia: I think there are a few things to keep in mind both the questions that were asking, some are meant to be answered by the admin and some meant to be answered by us. Youre not coming up with ideas to face these challenges, 
Mark: the administration can be very helpful, the administration, Julie Kirshmeyer, is going to help us come up with a way to help CCS stay on campus, and we have been able to work with the administration and help us come up with an answer. 
Steven: attacking the admin and not, I think there is a bit of a false dichotomy and I think a lot of people attacking the admin spent last night talking with other students talking about giving pressure where pressure is necessary. There have to be students saying “we see what were doing” the ski team saw what they were doing and recognized that what they were doing was not okay. These converstaions are constructive. They are not anybody’s fault. 
X: how do we get the people who aren’t talking involved in the conversation. Were all the same people complaining
Alex: I agree with what youre saying I think there are plenty of opportunities that we don’t capitalize on. Were all involved, we need to identify was to coorperate in way to talk with eachother and engage and talk to eachother. Like the ISA world cup , or the Black Jewish Freedom Ceder. These are things that we can all be doing all the time. When we come together and talk like this, don’t go home reight away talk to people. 
X:I would like to respond to the prior comment, were listening and trying to learn, we want to hear what youre saying, and try to figure out how to help
X::how do you learn, or consider if youre not engaging with both sides, its not like you go into class and you sit? You have to engage with both sides
Mitoki: hi guys Im in a music frat, a few months ago we had big debate about a homosexuality, how do we learn? From here, I can probably only name like 3 african Americans I know, reach out to us. We have done some stuff with phi beta sigma, I would love to hang out with you guys but I don’t know how to reach out to you and you don’t know how to reach out to me. 
Dallas: that is the saddest shit I have ever heard, you can go about your daily life and not have to, we can love eachother and know eachother. There is not any actual physical diversity. 
X: we are offered up as a digestable part of your community, do you know how many white people I see a year?
Jazzy:what I am saying, what is being said is invalid, how many people are uncomfortable, we have to respect one another. If any one is uncomfortable and you don’t understand why you’re angry, on both sides. 
X: one of the things that we brought up, you look at the strategic plan of the campus, 3rd spaces, cant be the only way to engage in diversity. It implies that there are 2 other spaces that are not diverse. 
Diamond: what is going on right now is you have people that feel this tension of and those that are uncomfortable that they don’t understand this tension. How do you have these groups moving forward and relishing in their pain? Pepople who are upset and don’t understand why, and why they are making a big deal. Secondly, the people who are not understanding, we need to make them understanding, we need effort on everybody’s part. On the end of the day we can be exclusive. We need to make people understand that tension and move move forward frm that
Jean: I come from an extremely native American culture. There is nobody in this room who has stood up for them, the fact that they are not represented here says so much about this university. There is no conversation about it,  I am on the ski team and I dressed as a navijo. I didn’t realize and I apologize, 
Tori Griffin: I am here applying for a job, but what I want to say to you is that from an outside perspective, I can feel the emotion, and the white students really uncomfortable, and the black people really emotional and I think this guy (Mitoki) really offended some people and I think Dallas really got that there was more to be said about that. I want to challenge you guys to be okay with making mistakes and saying the wrong thing. 
X: I would like us to cut the crap and the person to the right and infront of you….
Haley: thank you tony that was an excellent idea. Next week is may 5th, I would like to remind you all that following cinco de mayo we don’t have to be back here, I cant tell you how conco de mayo insults me. Hopefully, we wont have to see students wearing sombreros next week
Jesus: where do we go from here? How many people know that may is asian American month. This Tuesday there is an event: why do all the asians sit together? Please read the diversity report
Tyyrus: I don’t like that you are going to talk over us, when I am talking about the speed with which the university can move. It took hours to increase the percentage of minority enrollment. I appreciate what Mitoki said, I know you. I apologize for disrespecting senate. Everyday we wait for more answers, we have people drawn to tears because of the experiences they have had. This is a place where I should be able to walk into any administartors offices and know that they will be able to fight for me. We need to continue to hold ourselves to a higher standard of excellence, and we need to love everyone else as we love ourselves. This is real, we are the people that will rule the world, everyone needs to take it personally when I feel uncomfortable. 
Ani: 80% of the incidences are student on student, what can we tell constituents for a plan of how to solve this. I would like to move into discussion on tangible soultions. 
X: we are all leaders and we need to mobilize our groups to spread these ideas. Have these discussions with people that you know. Bring up the topic and talk about it. 
Sam: I agree this needs to be a student on student involvment, since we entrust in this institution our edu, why cant we entrust in them cultural competency. When we self police, this doesn’t happen. You have seen what happens on wall street, it isnt going to happen on our level, it has to happen at the administrative level. That’s why we keep coming back to these forums
X: this is the only group on campus that we could get
Jazzy: to step aside, an idea to address what you just said, why not, turn Friday, into students going out to deering, and we get everyone to meet eachother and we talk about the conversation we had tonight and get the conversation like what we had tonight going. We need to do something like that immediately or else people will not keep this up. What if we got 8000 students out there on deering, 5-6
Ani: mayfest is having something next Friday called pack a picnic, 
Mikey: I want to say, to be honest there is a lot of anger in this room, and a lot of people don’t go through it because they don’t go through it, and I don’t know what its like to be you. If you’re not out there meeting me, then you are not being culturally competent, just because u know someone doesn’t mean you get to be racist, 
Elena: im from the wildcat welcome board, I just met jasmine, were setting up new training sessions for the Pas to set up and foster ways to get them to better handle. I also think that the topic of women hasn’t come up. 
Tony: everyone in here has something that I don’t have, I get to stand in front of you because Im not in a wheelchair. Cultural competency courses, I need to be having conversations. If all of you are counting on the way you’re being educated, youre all going to get fucked. 
Ian: motion to bring emergency legislation to call to order 
(seconded)
Kellen: I think the idea that Jazzy brought is great, I ask that the administration send out a email suggesting that  the university would like to do a culture wide course to think through these situations. The university itself should participate 
On the same email we should get some answers to the questions we have put forth. 
Ani: with that I would like to move to the legislation we have put forth
Victor: we are a 100 member organization that represents all of you and were gonna help you guys put up this fight, its not a one man battle, I think what is powerful about ASG is that it can have an impact. This is a statement from ASG and I encourage you to visit Dallas’ web sight. We have the petition we would like everyone to sign. ASG has to be there for all of us to sign. 
X: you should add the diversity report
X: motion to move to old business
Ian: motion to amend
Link to the diversity report
(passed)
Victor: first paragraph: these incidences need to move beyond a forum. Second paragraph, really understanding other backgrounds and really understanding where the stories come in… I guarantee you that between us and the diversity committee, we do everything in our power to make sure the administration moves forward on these proposals. 
Ani: this is the legislation that would trigger this motion forward and validate everything that has been said tonight. Does anyone have any questions?
Ian (motion to previous question)
Alex: this is just a statement?
Ani: were gonna vote on it
(passes)
with every senator in this room, you take home this action translated. And thank you, really quickly, were moving to improve NU’s curriculum. 
Ian: an ad hoc committee to identify areas of the curriculum that are lacking. Things that could be included in cultural competence, if were going to have a cultural competence requirement we need a curriculum to stand behind it. We need a group of people to get this done. 
David: I think you still have described things that out to be addressed by the academic committee, this is dublicating efforts
Ian: its not at all, I spoke about it with Neil, he wasnted to hear what senate had to think about it, these are not thins that neil had in his platform, I have already started this work, and its not fair to give the problem onto him and to a committee that is not capable to take these projects on. 
(good of the order)
(roll call)

