Associated Student Government
Senate Meeting
April 4, 2012
Minutes

Ani: Thanks for being here, had a great week Exec board reports, approval of the jouranal? Exec board reports
Austin: hello everyone, s this week we have soe exciting things going on, we have the final series of ASG round tables in Harden hall with Morty Shapiro, the goal is for Non-ASG memebers, its supposed to be an environment for people who wouldn’t normally have a conversation with him. Send out the list serve blast. Its also in some of the annoucememnts. Also, we have a speaker, its co-sponcership with MUSAC in Medill, a media related person in Harris 107. This person has been quite the leaders and it is a very unique opportunity. The sweatshirts came in, let me know, I will pass them out. The final announcememnt, is about the UVPC, apps are due this Friday. The UVPC, according to NBN, is a more powerful organization than ASG. There is some validity to that
Girish: hey guys, it serves as a voice for the population in the budgeting process. Every fall we do a campus brain storm and talk with anyone that wants to talk to us to see what students want on campus. Grant money for student clubs, trips, wifi, cell upgrades, all of that has come out of this fall process. Hopefully you all have filled out the survey, it typically gets around 2000 responces. At the end of the winter we present this to the board and it has been a really good experience for me. The app is due Friday at 5
Austin: on thing to note is that the presentation is quite significant, you are on the same level as the Deans. Getting ideas for a campus brainstorm, it is a really goood opportunity to meet with a really diverse group of people. Freshman and sophomores, you should apply it’s a great opportunity
Girish: don’t let time being a restrictive opportunity, 
David: clarify how ASG and this groups mission converge
Girish: ASg pushes for what the students want to do, UVPC presents a tangible budget request that can really happen
Austin: so both are focused on serving students, ASG goes about it in intangible ways. UVPC attaches a dollar sign to that
David: ASG considers policy and programs
Girish; UVPC doesn’t suggest policy, we will be coming back in a month once our report comes back, look forward to that. My eec board report, another joint exec board report, arts alliance and special O are approved as a status groups. 
Lauren: It’s a big deal hearins were an hour and a half each. Those two groups went from having 2.57% of funds to 95% of funds!
Girish: 2 weeks ago, we opened an investigation on Hillel for not publishing their magazine, and we have a new candidate for replacement for Ani. 
Brandon: if you are not hearing your name called or getting list serve e-mails please let me know
David: one, cell phone rental program, they are in the mail/ they came today. Hopefully youll see some marketing for that but it may be delayed bc its coming from Norris. Job cat is launching next Wednesday. Opening up north beach May 1 instead of memorial day and turning on the fountains earlier and I think it’s a really good way to celebrate our campus this spring
Ani: one quick report on the state of senate, we have 10 vacant seats, as you can see we are working on it. As new senators come in we are going to put them through a more intensive training process but well get there and promise to make senate a better experience for everyone involved. 
Mark: with a whopping white ballot majority there will be a new caucus whip: Paul. 
Paul: I am excited to serve in this position, I am the rainbow alliance 
Mark: I am stepping down because I don’t have time, and I think it’s a healthy thing for whips to transition while I am still in senate to help get things get rolling in the fall. 
Ani: if new senators could introduce themselves:
(intros)
Ian: motion to overturn 22 and 23
Ani: that’s not in order 
Ani: were going to confirm the newest member of SAFC
Terence: I am a junior, this is my third year in senate and I have served in a number of committes on senate, I was looking for a committee to apply from, I had to leave SGC, looking to get back fully into the grove of things. I thought this would be a a good committee for me. I thought that this was a power hungry organization but my thoughts on that have thus changed
Ash: this is obviously a huge committee do you have the time to juggle this commitment
Terrrence: Funding is comming up, I have been preparing for funding. I am a member of 3 frats that don’t meet very regularly. During the week I am a member of Pulse that meets once a week and Wednesday I have senate. I am doing an academic internship with Chicago field study. 
Ani: for new senators, they audit the 40 A Status groups that receive the lions share of the 1.4 million dollars delegated to senate. In early may we will vote on how much each group receives
X: can you talk about your experience with Sofo?
Terrence: I have been trained from other student groups, I am being trained next Tuesday. I was a group exec so I am familiar. 
Ani: we will go to a vote on confirmation
(passed)
the next general order is a presentation on legal services
David: I would have asked Ani to be here for our presentation but now hes speaker. A new program, legal services FAQ, a valuable way for students to turn to a centralized resource we have provided a set of common questions with well researched answers. Why should I care? A minor legal problem can turn into a huge bill, the kind of project services likes to focus on how can we use our resources to help students solve their problems. Is this reliable? All this info is sourced with additional resources. Were not lawyers, we just want to help you get started. 
	Examples…..
Asg.northwestern.edu/legal advise. We are sending a link out to media we hope this gets press, the best way for these things to succeed is word of mouth
X: how are they going to ensure that this continues to get press. 
David: we are overhauling the web site, we are gong to ensure that students are accustomed to checking that out. And you guys are responsible for keeping this alive as well and if you guys think that there is something we missed we are heppy to get that in there as well
Ani: Joe was supposed to present to us the budget for next year but she isnt here, were going to move onto new business, we have a stand in for the new author
Mark. Authorship speech for 3 minutes, make it old busniess and we can talk about it next week
Brandon: Aaron and Lindsay Baranco are going to a conference next week, its for living on campus more cheaply
Ani: any questions? If not this goes into old business for next week. Were going to move onto a bill that was on the agenda from a few weeks ago and it is now back
Mark: we talked about this a month ago brought forward by SEED, to form a committee to incentivise student groups to be more sustainable in their practices. It was something I wanted to eplore in a smaller group. I want to talk to senate about what were doing and present legislation to senate in a few weeks
Ash: what do you see this process looking like?
Mark: most of our waste is coming from the resources were drawing from. Improve office culture and were looking to see what mechanism 3. What are practices 2. Looking for normative practices
Ash: is this looking for a problem you have found or is it investigative
Mark: the former, there are a lot of things we can do much better my hope is to find out what those are and encourge groups to do this
X: would you be interested in putting a date into this bill to solidify the bill for when and where to elect this committee. Motion to amend to strike the line saying that they will be elected in the following senate and to insert a date for when to elect the committee. 
Mark: lets say by May 2nd
Ani: is there a second for that motion? Thank you victor shou, if you are looking at the agenda, at the bottom of the page, the author would like to elect at this senate and a date for when the committee would come back and update senate as to the progress of the committee. All in favor of this amendment?
(passed)
this bill now reads without the last clause and has may 2nd as the next date. 
Are there any further questions on the bill
(motion to previous question – seconded)
Any objections
(seeing none)
Skipping debate and going on to the bill all in favor to approving the bill?
(passes)
revert to our general order to vote on creating this group. Opening the floor to nominations. One must be a student groups senator, the other can be any senators
(nominations)
Ani: these are far less formal than standing committees, they work on their own scheduals and it’s a great way to get to know SGC. 
David: Someone motion to white ballot. 
Victoria: motion to white ballot
Ani: were not gonna ask them question, we will accept them as they are? Any objections to white ballot. All in favor?
(passed)
Congrats
SL11-12-22 Senator Training, Old Business
Victor: this goes to the heart of the issue, of you have no idea of what is going on. Senator training, there are two elements that I am proposing to help familiarize yourself to senate, 1. Legislation writing, the rules committee works on revising legislation so that it is ready for legislation. We also run the judicial board, we want to help you guys with legislation writing so we can help pass legislation to make NU a better place and so we can help yo make a better impact. For specific details it wold be effective immeadiatly and require new senators to come to a training session. 
Mark: why is this being proposed now?
V: I have spoken to Brandon about it…
Mark: this wouldn’t be an immediate change 
Victor: the end of the quarter
Ash: do you see this being a group training session?
Voctor: I see it as a model that would train everyone and then go home and write something and the Rules committee would look at it and provide feedback so senators feel prepared. 
Ani: quick note, is there a date for when rules will tell senate when they will talk about progress. 
X: Motion to Amend, include a line that the second to last senate of quarter rules would come in and update which senators ave completed this requirement so they have time to come to one meeting before the end of the quarter
Ani: all in favor of this amendment please say Ay
(passes)
We are in line for pro con. Any pros?
(motion to previous question)
(passes)
Old Busniess: Senator Handbook
Victor: the second part of senator training, we propose a senator handbook, there is a pre existing one but it does not prepare a senator in an adequate way. This bill forms a writing team that is responsible for writing one by the end of the quarter. Ians concern is that we should wait bc senators are new, I argue that considering that these guys are new we need to start working on it immediately. The handbook will include a bunch of sections that cover the parliamentary procedures.. etc. the pr committee would be responsible for making the handbook presentable and the whips would be responsible for including info relevant to their caucus. Revised draft done by 8th week. Final by 10 period. 
Ash: realistically is the timeline feasible given the fact that spring is a transional time, in genral is this the right time to do this effectively, 
V: I think I must be done, and there isnt a way around that, if we need more people to work on it we can be flexible and include that. I think it’s a matter of expanding on what has already been done. A lot of it is just aggregating info, not writing new stuff. 
Mark: parliamentary body, do you think that you are prepared to submit adequate information
Brandon: yes I think I could, 
Victor: I think there needs to be something in by the end of the quarter
Girish: would you want Lauren or I to be on the committee
V: ts just a matter of getting information from you guys
Ani: were going to move into a debate. 15 min is a lot of time, if it doesn’t last that long it doesn’t last that long. Raise your hand for a pro or con speech for 2 min. If you like this bill and would like to speak on behalf of it you may do to. Con speech
Mark: I think the heart of this bill is in the right place but I don’t think there has been enough homework done yet, I think letting people settle into their rolls would be beneficial. 
Ash: when would the right time be?
Mark: it doesn’t make sense for fresh parliamentary body to have to do this, I think the executive vp who is currently ruling should be responsible. I am proposing to table this for 2 weeks. Until the exec board transition is complete
Ani: any other pro speeches
David: I think that this is the perfect time to do it the parliamentary body is fully capable, jusyt bc it is in the middle of the presidential election. I think sooner is better than later, its better to take a handle on it now. Not fair to punish people for being in the middle of a campaign. 
Ash: question to the author, would you be comfortable making it such that I will start in this process and the new VP would accept the responsibility as they transition
V: it is important to know who is responsible so those who have the time to do this should be the ones responsible
David: senate often delays things, its better to do things sooner rather than later
V: people in the positions now can pass on responsibility
Ani: con speech? We are in the second round
Mark: to address what david said, I would argue that legislation we delay, there is a learning curve for this, they do not have enough experience. 
David: do you think its prudent, there are 10 new senators now and there will be 10 in 2 weeks .
Mark: we need to have people who have experience in their respective positions to do this in a successful ways. 
Mark: you need buy in from everyone who would be involved and that isnt what I am seeing. 
Ani: if you are typing on your comp then youre not looking at the adgenda, that’s thee only reason why you should have that in front of you. Another pro speech? If you want to introduce yourself:
Dana: we spoke about this in dorm caucus today, we were thinking that most of the weight of this would fall on our project, it doesn’t seem that daunting when we divide it. Were not in transition. We don think exec transition will effect this as much. Writing the manual would fall on dorm senators caucus
V: do you want to amend this to include a bigger role for RHA/RCB caucus. 
Dana: yes, 
V: since the responsibilities are not delegated. 
Mark: I was caucus whip for student groups caucus, this is your first senate as a whip, we had 6 people show up to caucus, we are in deep transition, I will find it very challenging to write anything because we are in transition. 
Brad: why do you think in 5 weeks it would be more beneficial to wait until everyone is COMPLETELY new
Mark: why was the legislation brought before senate in the midst of transition
David: can you remember a time when there are not a lot of transition
Mark: winter quarter. 
Ani: we are now moving into a vote on the bill itself. 
(point of clarification: all four caucus whips would be engaging their own caucuses)
Ani: all in favor
(passes)
Ani: good of the order: new senators, I am going to start meeting with you 3 at a time so keep an eye out for that, it will be in the point of a google doc. I took a quarter to transition but I will help none the less
Ash: there is a campaign going on, I want to let you know there are debates going on so I encourage all of you to go and to educate yourself on what is going on. Hopefully I will see you guys at some of these debates. 
Amalia:  mondayat 6, there is going to be a KONY effect panel to talk about what happened with the whole Kony effect 
David: project cookie is operating tonight, and forever, a late night cookie service, inception cookie, a cookie within a cookie. Follow us on twitter. Were not doing official recruitment, but were hiring, 
Tori: 15 dollars for A and O tickets
X: GES is next week, thurs fri sat
