ASG Senate Minutes
10-24-2012

Brad: CSI has requested 1000 from the senate Project pool for a NU day at United. Im wondering if that was brought forth in legislation how many people would be interested
	(little support)
Haley: a little about the diversity comittee, we have been working on the academic requirement we have been working with the directpr for campus involvement and inclusion we have also set aside our fall quarter inititives. we will be working on getting a prayer room, gender neutral bathrooms, reaching out to people in the chabad house and making sure the students have the right connections. Diversity requirement is our year long initiative, 
	Brock: what is the requirement, 
Haley: something that was brought on by students, it would be a requirement in weinberg that students would have to take something that would cover diversity, it would be a course that would occur during freshman year and it would teach them how to discuss this as well. The curriculum belongs to the faculty, right now it seems like it would be one course but a distro requirement is possible to. after the report they will know better. I have no preference
Marc: read the report, it has the format for my committee, if you have any questions please e-mail me. 
David: hopefully you guys went to the foodtruck festival, Homecoming did most of the work for us we are looking to do it once a quarter but maybe once a month.
were currently working on a JObCat video, if you have used it and have has a positive experience, hopefully you would be willing to do something we could publish. Hope youre geared upfor a nice loquatious sente
Steven: Chris and Mike are bringing up a piece of legislation, i would encourage you to look at it and send them your input we are trying to decide if there is anything we should have. check it out mull it over 
Ani: please return the clickers, they were ordered years ago, there might be a project pool request asking for clickers. Shout out to Lauren who brought my hammer back, I feel like Thor getting his hammer back but less chiseled. 
	Brandon: Code review, rules committee conducted code review brad and victor helped a lot. it is when rules looks at the code, it is basically trying to keep the code within our practices, it is not meant for major changes its mostly for little changes, we are going to give you a week to look at it and we are going to vote on it next week. 
	Ani: well post the link to the adgenda. 
Victor: as mentioned last week we pasted legislation last quarter to give you guys updates to make sure we were doing our jobs. we all put together platforms that outline our goal and our vision. Brad and I spent a quarter and a half meeting with people over 100 and really got a sense of all the different things about NU. this is a continuation of that it covers all the platform promises we made and well give you a progress update. well start with new Projects
	Brad: these were things not included in our platform, 10k initiative, 
Victor: Board of Trustees engagement, connecting students to them and they are very powerful and passionate and this is working with the admin to do so one is having round table and reception style. this would be an invite only event. TV interviews with them, how they got to how they are now. 
Brad: we will be talking with student life about this, please feel free to stop us or ask questions
	Mark: you dont think there will be an event on the 9th
	Brad: we talked to PTI, 
Victor: a campus lipdub video, a song that you lip sync to and you showcase different groups on campus, ASG. Morty, kellog does one every year. we want to see how that goes for us and do it better. were still determining the time line for that. 
	freshman video guide, in the process of figuring out how these videos will be hosted and who to ask and how to start putting them up, we would like to have them up by the end of this quarter
	Brad: NU Day at United
Victor: Roundtable, 10-20 intimate conversation. somewhat related to board of trustees first will be at the end of this quarter
last 2 projects PLI will be working on, research, this year is pretty critical on the decision of the new student center. 
Expanding COFHE research, we want to expand the database so if you have a project you can go into the database and talk to the counterpart you would like to talk to
research on the student activity fee and see how the model works we want to see how we compare and how we can improve
	Brad: we will have a deadline in March
Brad: student Engage, Expression NU, people could go online and say anything they have a problem with. Students could go onto the page and like the ideas like Readdit, should be done by the end of the quarter
Victor: Student summit, be able to bring student leaders into the same room and collaborate. there is a strong lack of comunitcation. we would like to report back on the end of this wuarter, 
Brad: the last 2 items, the idea was basically to improve campus wide communicatin. we put a significant amount of effor to get name for our email list, right now its over 1000 people. we need a better way to communicate with campus
Neil is working on getting a centralized academic calendar. we will be sure to get back, 
Victor: wildcat conection is an integral part of that so we will be working with PLI
Victor: Social, student center, the admin spent half a million on consultants and the needs to improve this place, we got the survey results which are confidential as of now, nothing unexpected, the timeline going forward is the finantial stuff will be done by the end of december, the possibility of including in the fee, an amount for the center, a comprehensive proposal in march. 
	Brad: plenty of opportunity for student input, it will definately be contraversial 
	Ian: in terms of adding the fee, 
	Brad: the university would front the money and over the course of a few years, the students would pay that back. 
Third place, something Alex has been working on
Late night programming, i hope you guys have been taking advantage of what NU nights is doing, they will be applying for status and working with them
Victor: flexible upperclassman meal plans, wireless internet coverage, 
	Ethan: we are going to be working on the app with a research
Brad: student afffairs in IT are looking into how to solve the Allison issues. 
Victor: online work order was completed last quarter. tracking progress of things that are broken, 
	X: are we aware that NU portal was updated and stopped the online work order request
	Lauren: facilities management wont change their system it all funnels into the area coordinator, it all directs to one person who has to re type. its a little defunct but 
	Brad: that shouldnt have happened well look into it
Motoki: relating to alc, wasnt there a summer work group
Brad: yep Nov 1, a lot of our promises got delegated to Alex
Brad: student enrichment fund, apply for a grant and go something that would enrich their learning. this is being implemented through the faculty student interaction grants. 
Victor: advising and mentoring, Neil
After improved communications and multimedia. 
Brad: Greek Life, securing relationships with Counsils, Deering Days, definately have made progress on that and hopefully more things can come out of those meetings. Freshman freeze is something that is being discussed. Greek housing was an issue during the campaign, we had contact over the summer, Theta Chi has a floor of a building and will get more as they grow AEPi moved accross the sidewalk. ZBT moved into greenhouse 
SOFO reform, were working on integrating with Wildcat Connection. Student Group Storage, we were justtaking about with exec, were going to wait until after funding and then well come back with more info
	X: storage for theater groups?
	Brad: yep
Alex: group collaboration, advising are things we want to work on but SGC and SAFC are both working on funding but we can focus when they are done so groups know what they are getting into when they apply. 
Brad: Athletics, we have touched on it. 
Off Campus: civic engagement, we are looking to get people involved, Steven and his committee and the off campus senators, looking forward to may when the alderman have their elections. lookiing to get students involved in getting some alderman that are not particularly friendsly to NU. 
Brothel Law, as soon as the licesing legislation goes through then we will be able to tackel that
Off campus housing resources, tony kirchmeyer, as soon as we have more info on that the off campus ambassador role is also a part of tha t exansion, 
	Ani: deadline for that is tonight
Victor: sustainability counsil, appointed mark and his committee
	COuncil: a nuanced issue, talk about expanding this into the facility end, something like that would include and environmental study. green accountability, i have members that are intended to consult groups on their events that are intended to consult. Work on and assist other groups, provide ASG resources to get these things implimented quickly
Brad: communication and transparency, huge spike in media traffic in the fall, transparency, we have made one of our meetings open to the public 
Marc: have you made that info public yet
Brad: Tech. ethan has done some significant clean up to our servers, thats a lot of back end work that nobody sees and there is a lot of work being put into the site
Ethan: working on getting a new homepage up by the end of the week. every coming weekend I am looking to get each page of the site up on line. full roster, committee pages, contact info, online and off line survices, you name it its all gonna be on there. Anything related to your caucus, send me an e-mail. 
Brad: recruitment training accountability, it should sound really similar to what we have been talking about all week, its not just targeted at senate. 
Victor:since spring  we have implimented some trainings, kind of manditory PR hours to help ensure that our events are getting publicized all year. 
Neil: hey guys, so I am just going to talk about my projects, there is also a list of who is workin gon them in the report. Accounting courses, the issue is 2 fold, the expansion of the existing course BIP 260, it really fills up we are trying ot work with UVPC, higher level accounting courses, admin doesnt want Weinberg to get to professional. 
Environmental Curriculum, there are 3 departments that cover it they are kind of disperate, looking to replicate an environmental literacy, probs a pre wildcat welcome thing
Diversity requirement, basically trying to i nstutie some kind of requiremnt
Islamic studies interview, the creation of a more cohesive unified islamic studies program, it hold added value now that we have a campus in Qa’tar (SOfia)
International Studies Program, there is no really structured programs. 
Concurrent Cources, Collaborations working to promote more collaboration with those two departments or hw assignments due the same day and considering there are lots of students taking both that there would be a way to avoid that
Farley center of entrepreneuship and Expansion, creat new projects, they were excited that we reached out to them
Chicago engagement, some kind of program or class to get people more engaged in chicago. Chicaho history classes
Textbook Affordability, DePaul reached out, there are a cooalition to get more affordable books. 
UCS?UAAC: career advising, clear that up and not have that inefficient overlap
Syllabi and CTECH, a space for profs to have this on c tech so students can get more of an idea. that could go beyond just syllabi. 
breaking down large classes, too many discussion or lectures that are too big. 
Faculty Interaction grants
	Civic Engagement and Experiential Learning, getting credit for extracurricular activities, 
Unofficial Student Guide
	Ian: connecting Undergrad Schools, connecting undergrads with graduates. 
Neil: undergrads, falls under farley, those connect all the schools in meetings i have had with admin. I saw that program as a great way for different schools to collaborate. that covers the graduate portion to
	Ian: you describe students who are in music have problems taking classes how has that been addressed
	Neil: I guess it hasnt been addressed, its hard to work on right now
	Ian: how are you going to connect with other schools than kellog, the grad school. 
	Neil: after I speak with administrators and come up with a plan, i will open it up to committee members. 
Alex: Attendence Incentives for Athletic events, nothing came of it, athletics just wanted to handle it on their own. Flexible upperclassman meal plans, were working with CASE (consultants advising student enterprises) they are handleing that and working with sodexo, lightwalk, completed by jane gilmore, NU tradition book, the NU class alliance, were waiting on them. if you want to help out with that. electronic IM sign ups, that will be done by the end of the quarter. New Student Center. they are surrently working on something that will be done in december. Upperclassmen housing, working on master plan JPK, Brad Victor and I met with consultants, there will be more of that to come. Performance spaces, some res halls dont have pianos, alumni resource consolidation, something with UCS, consolidate those make it easier for students to access. Weekend Dininghall, looking whether or not HInamn is the best place. transportation improvement, katie was a part of it. if you are interested let me know, I will be updating you on a weekly basis, the thing with studentlife, its hard to give a timeline but ill be updating you with progress. Chicago engagement fair, i have worked with ROb Donahugh, one book one NU, i am on the steering committe, a way to create option for studens to get an experience. Extending Library hours, mudd will be 24 hours for finals. field use and renevation. Long field, maybe turf?/ Multipurpose 24 hour spaces, we brainstormed some ideas where we could keep open 24 hours. what would be the most feasable what they could do with a roll out pilot program this winter. Police Protest responce code reform, ad hoc committee for america. 
	Steven: had to do with what heppened last year how police respond to that. in case something were ever to happen and there was a peacful protest, students wouldnt be harmed nor their rights jeopordized. we havent had any meetings this year but there are some scheduled. 
Alex: moving along, satelite recreational facilities, its only 10 min to spac but it seems like forever in the winter, were looking at the options talking to student affairs. Student group library printing, if you havnt noticed they have a new system you can print from anywhere in campus, rolling out more optons. Student group library printing, linkng up ASG system to the library, they said it was feasable, they are working out the kinks, should have progress soon. Elevators in res halls, they are open year round, the ones that arent maintenence. electronic package notifications, those rolled out with a piolote program in the spring and is now launched full on. let me know if thats not happening. if you have any problems. Archive digitization, I have a huge file that i think it would be cool for people to have online i know PLI will be helping ius I know it will be digitized by the end of winter if not sooner. if you want to see past diversity intiatives if you want to see past the 80s. how student life is applicable for upperclassman, using firesides as an outreach so its not just here but taking it to the halls, senators well use as a tool for that. Hannah and Jane are working on blue light stuff on campus making sure they can be reached. Cleaning Staff Days, looking at the contract and see if there is a way we can arrange it to see if there is a day that things can get cleaned over the weekend.(Marc, Cleaning Staff appreciation day?) Lock out policy that was something i heard a lot of push back about, they rolled out this year, they charge you the 3rd time and charge you and change your lock, people are mad and it needs to be addressed. that should be something that should be done by the end of the quarter. to go with the U-pass debate there are far more options for going into the city. a pass you can get you can load money onto online, its a shorter term solution. email me, my emai and phone number is in the exec board report i know stuednt life stiff is really broad. let me know if there is something you want to work on. 
Ani: a follow up to that, these will be online, we want to bring forward everything that were working on they will come before they start puting resources and time into it. as we have seen over the past few weeks, senate’s insight is imperative. 
Victor: These amendments and code changes reflected everything needed to add the position. This is the culmination of about three years of work - the Chief of Staff is really an organizational necessity to streamline recruitment efforts and so that human resources aren’t a scatterbrained effort year in and year out. We want to make sure that everyone feels they are part of a community and has the tools to succeed. 
	Over the past couple of weeks we’ve reached out to a lot of you guys about concerns and thoughts:
	- We see the clerk as an outdated position, especially in a large exec board. Taking notes isn’t really a great role for an exec board member
	- In terms of responsibilities, the CoS is very different from the EVP - the EVP is more about meeting and managing members of the exec board, whereas the CoS would be more about retention and development of senators and committee members
	- In terms of Senate’s power, you are in charge of confirming exec members, and for a position of this caliber, just like other exec positions, it is important to open this up to the rest of campus
	- However, for right now, we feel that Carly is the best for this position
	Carly: First we want to apologize to anyone who felt disrespected by the last few Senates. I want to talk about two things - why the Clerk should be dissolved, and the distinction between Clerk and CoS. After spending time as the Clerk, there aren’t enough responsibilities to warrant being on exec. Think about what you’re (Senate) losing by dissolving this position. Ani’s job as Speaker is to represent Senate on the exec board and the Clerk isn’t really doing it. Also there aren’t other organizations that have Clerk-related positions. For two years, the elections for Clerk have been unopposed, and there isn’t much excitement about it. 
	Also, there is value in keeping the exec board small, in terms of cohesion and effectiveness, which is why dissolving the Clerk and creating the CoS came up at the same time. This issue isn’t new - it was brought up three years ago and has been seen as a problem by many different administrations, and Brad and Victor are the first ones to act on it. 
	Ani and Brad have been given many additional responsibilities regarding recruitment that have added a lot of strain on top of their original jobs, and adding a CoS would add a level of professionalism to the organization. The level of success of this organization with a CoS will really go forward, and you will be able to leave this organization feeling like you’ve accomplished much more. 
	For these reasons I really think the legislation should go through as it is. 
	Motoki: Could it be the job description of the Clerk... (?) Could it be that adding the note-taking to the Parliamentarian will detract from his other responsibilities?
	Brandon: No, when we change note-taking to a way more consistent with Robert’s Rules, which is more of a summary of points and noting the motions, as opposed to how it is now. 
	Victor: After changing the notes to a condensed version, I don’t see it being a problem.
	Ian: It could help parliamentary procedure when we change the structure of note-taking.
	Henry: Regarding recruitment, how the CoS will help with recruitment on a week-to-week basis - what recruitment happens on a week-to-week basis?
	Ani: There is constant turnover in this organization.
	Brandon: [agreed]
	Oregano girl: Why don’t we want this position elected from the Senate?
	Brad: The CoS coordinates very much with the Parliamentary Body without taking away the body’s power to appoint senators. Week-to-week recruitment is not as prominent within committees but it is still important, especially since committees like the SAFC and 10K recruit on different timelines. 
Ani: Seeing none we will move into debate period.
Brad: Motion to amend on behalf of Sarah Brock, who cannot be here tonight. [Motoki: amend] I definitely support the amendment as well, but I want to be clear that I did not write it. This is going to come in the legislation right after the word “required.” You guys can all read that on the board.
Everyone: [reads]
Henry: [something about Clerk and CoS]
Brad: The elimination of the Clerk is vital to the creation of the CoS.
Ani: Mark had a question - “What does this all mean?”
Mark: I’m not sure in what part of the description he or she has some sort of special	responsibility.
Brad: Comfort of senators, exec board, etc. is very much integral to what the CoS does. As we improve our own internal accountability, that transfers down to students who see better results. 
Ani: Other questions?
David: I motion to PQ. [second] [yes] [it happened]
Ani: Abstaining?
Jesse: No sorry that was something else.
[laughs]
Ani: A simple no would have sufficed.
Jesse: What?
Ani: Nothing I was just being an asshole.
Henry: Main thing I have a problem with is taking away a role from the Parliamentary Body, we could potentially have a Clerk who really represents the Senate on exec.
Ani: We’re now in line for a pro speech.
David: Can I just address that argument? I’ve only been a part of two exec boards, but I really disagree that the Clerk even has the opportunity to provide that voice because she doesn’t have room to do that and her role is not defined that way. That this has been brought up for three years shows that it’s not an issue of who specifically is on the executive board. I truly believe that this is much bigger than the fourteen of us and more about the way our organization is structured. 
Ani: We’re now in line for con speech.
Ian: I move the PQ on this amendment.
Ani: This requires 2/3rd of Senate to approve.
Multiple people: Second.
Ian: I move for a standing vote.
David: Ooh, dramatic!
Motoki: I move for a ballot vote.
Various: [no] [object] [are you serious] [that is the worst idea]
Steven: I love voting about voting!
Ani: We are voting to change the constitution. 
Ian: Point of parliamentary order - [something]
All in favor: 31
All against: Francis 
All abstaining: 3
^Carly’s last notes!!!!
 
Code review:
Ian: motion to PQ
(passed)
Ani: student group apportionment, moves the process to fall quarter. they find out if they have a senate seat and then apply to be senator rather than the other way around. 
Ian: Motion to strike “though shall not vote unless in the case of a tie”  abstiaing members do not count to vote totals, if there is no previsions for a tie everything breaks downs and I hear the code bursts into flamrs. 
	Girish: there are frequently people who cant make it to all the meetings
	Brad: stike as a non voting member
	Ian: okay
(passed)
Ani: All in favor of adjusting the code as written please say Aye 
(passed)
Lauren: you guys struck it last week, there was some discussion, a new student groups sub committee. there are a huge number of new student groups, its a problem because I dont have enough resources on my committee, I would like to solve that. when we focus on these new groups it pulls resources from the groups that already have status. Create a committee that focuses on the new groups specifically. 
	Ian: would the poeple on this new student groups committee have a say on who gets status. 
	Lauren: now these people work with people up until the point where they get recognition. they can consult but they would not be able to vote, they could bring them up or say youre not a good fit
	X: do you see this committee coming from withing, if the answer to this is yes, how does this help?
	Lauren: no, these people need to have different knowledge they would be trained seperatly
	Mike: what process would the new groups have to go through to be a part of this sub committee. 
	Lauren: no i usually just get emails once or twice a week, and i can just reference them to help you 
	Ian: how will you train then?
	Lauren: i have all the knowledge, so i am going to train and after the term and when i am ready to leave there will be a transition doc
	Mike: do you think 2 is enough?
	Lauren: yes, i think 2 is enough. 
Ani: in line for a con speech 
Ian: PQ
(passed)

Mike: Hi guys! I am a new office campus senator, 
Chirs: Im from elder
Mike: new grant called the service and community engagement grant, here at Nu individuals dont have access to funding for community relations, the idea is to create a grant of 500 that will provide student groups and individuals. selection committee has 3 asg students a vp of off campus, winter quarter selection for applications process. divided up 500 dollars, individual approved for the grant will have all of spring quarter to complete the project. 
Mark: why 500 dollars? 
Mike: its a pilot year: its like the .5k community service project. 
Nolan: how will you gage success?
Chris: okay um we put it into the bill that next spring senate will discuss it. whether its an individual or a group will have to complete a survey of whether or not they thought it was successful. 
Mark: if you take 500$ from ASG, why not take money from outside sources, sponsorship, ways to make the event a little impactful. 
Mike: Network. in terms to finding external grants. 
Chris: we have not looked at outside funding. we want to expedite this process. 
Rebecca: what do you think this 500 will be spent on? because I can think of a whole bunch of service ideas that dont cost 500$. 
Chris: flower boxes, anything that will impact how Evanston thinks about NU. 
Rebecca: what is the difference between this and NU gives back?
Steven: the difference is that NU Gives Back is a service day. this is supposed to empower student groups that maybe dont have the resources right now. I guess thats something that is up for debate. we would like to give people the opportunity to expand and be creative its why we want someone 
X: what happens if you select the group and they dont follow through, 
Chris: the be it enacted section, the section says it will get rolled back into the funds. this bill comes with some risk, we feel that this is not something we can avoid. 
Petros: concerning the timeline, reading week of spring quarter, what prevents people from saying they dont have time to fill out the form. 
Mike: even if they cant attend, if there are enough students, they have to come in and show all of their photos. 
Ani: NU’s climate commitment 
Mark: excessive detail is in the legislation. In the legislation is the climate ocmmittment, we now have the capacity to do this. 
Alex: for the top whereas on the second page... per person?
Mark: no youre right, good job
Brad: motion to add an agenda item, confirm Carly or else she wont be able to attend meeting on sunday

Carly: [Being Awesome] Confirmation speech
Motion to close question period [Accepted]
Endorsement/Debate Period
X: Carly is really hardworking, dedicated. Was instrumental in getting me involved in ASG, great for role.
X: Known Carly for a long time, was one of the most active individuals I’ve known, always trying to take on more responsibility. Transfers are great people in ASG- have more perspective
X: Carly has been positive force in ASG- gone above realm of responsibilities to work with operations, makes sure everything’s considered in all issues. Carly was an obvious pick for this position as the CoS responsibilities became more apparent. Has the talent to do well with the position.
X: CoS position came about before removal of the clerk- before the removal of the clerk was even considered, had planned to ask Carly to step down from Clerk and apply. Really thought Carly was the best person for the job
X: Question: Brad, did Carly help with your campaign
Brad: No, she was already Clerk and couldn’t do
