	•	Ani: were going to go ahead and get started with some executive board reports, 
	•	Brad: I’m Brad, I’m the Vice President, I have 4 pieces of legislation tonight. 
	•	Neil: Academic VP I hope you enjoyed my report
	•	David: I’m the services report, update on JobCat, our biggest project from last year, we averaged 1.7 posts per day we have had a substantial amount of use, so pretty exciting
	•	We broke a record w 9 posts today
	•	That’s all
	•	David: ASG Treasurer, were just figuring out audit trails from this summer, 
	•	Steven: my name is Steven, sorry I wasn’t in here I was on the phone with the daily we are working on a few new initiatives this year, encouraging more communication and cooperation, most of it is in the exec report, got a lot of new members
	•	Alex: SLVP, I don’t have much to share, be talking with your constituents, use your imagination if they have any ideas, my email is in the exec board report so if you have any ideas send me my way
	•	Ethan: HEY EVERYBODY!!! NUIT did a survey of wifi reception and found that there were very few issues in dorms, and the issues they found were with personal routers, so that’s something I just want to tell you if you hear about it from your constituents, 
	•	There is a new committee that is looking into blackboard alternatives, so there is goodness on the way there, so as you guys are probably aware there are all kinds of things out there and I will let you know as I hear more
	•	There is a new blackboard mobile app, the interesting thing about it is that its not free, it’s a 1.99 per year or 5 for unlimited, check it out if you’re interested. 
	•	Girish: if you guys are in any way involved with student groups read my report, funding apps are coming out next week and then we will all come in and vote. The other thing that Lauren will talk about more. We are trying to expand our roles and find a way to help student groups in general
	•	Lauren: I want to echo a lot of what Girish said, if you have any ideas or complains that constituents have said to you, the admin is here looking for change, we are going to welcome Charlie and Danielle, the SGC is going to release their own apps soon 
	•	This also applies to GIRISH, SOFO account approval, if you are B or T status, I need to sign your form
	•	Please give us your feedback and your ideas. 
	•	Brandon: you guys should consider running for a seat if you want to get a better pulse of what’s going on in senate, 
	•	Victor: it’s your job to talk to your communities to give us feedback because we are looking for ways to really improve NU. It’s not easy to go up to strangers and ask them how you would like to see us improve. But its really your job to be very conscious, I think along the way you will learn how to build a community
	•	Our projects are pretty collaborative, you have to come to meetings each week but in no way should that constrain you, if you are passionate than there is no reason why you can’t work on these projects. 
	•	Ani: again to welcome you guys, in the next few weeks we will be sitting down with each of you to let us know what we are working on. 
	•	Tony Kirchmeier: im the director of off campus life in the dean of students office, we have a new student position starting in January: off campus ambassador that is going to help us pull and distribute information and plan activities, we are going to start off with ward 4, 5 and 7. Off campus ambassadors are a group that ASG officers have recommended to us. We want to initiate this pilot project in order to ultimately benefit this community. The deadline is the 19th please apply by then
	•	Interviews will happen in late October and then decisions made in early November. 
	•	Must be a current student in good standing
	•	A full time student
	•	Must be available for the entire winter and spring term, I will leave these for you guys
	•	This job is available on career cat
	•	It is considered an on campus job it is essentially available to anybody. 
	•	X: how many hours a week would this take?
	•	TK: estimated 10 to 12, I think we are going to tweak it, we are going to be working on what works and what doesn’t work 
	•	Mark: what will be your relationship with Steven?
	•	TK: Steven is one of the members of the off campus student advisory board committee, we spent Monday night together
	•	X: can it be counted as a work-study job?
	•	TK: yes, I believe so, its 500$ a quarter. 
	•	Ani: SGC committee confirmations
	•	Lauren: the SGC and SAFC are the groups that make recommendations to you guys that senate can accept. I have to recommend people to put on my committee, and this is your guys chance to ask them questions because they are dealing with the SAF. 
	•	Charlie: I am a sophomore transfer; I am really excited to be working on this committee. I’m planning on pursuing Econ and Poli sci, this is a really good way for me to get involved and I want to really just make the most of my time here,
	•	Danielle: I’m a freshman, excited to work for the SGC if you approve. I am thinking of doing a double major in Econ and Legal studies, it’s a very important component of the undergraduate experience. 
	•	Ian: what’s your favorite student group?
	•	Charlie: ISBE, besides ASG of course
	•	Danielle: I just joined an a capella group so I really like that
	•	X: what school did you transfer from
	•	Charlie: Vanderbilt 
	•	APPROVED
	•	Victor: in the spring we allocated 480$ from the spring project pool, for the library, there were 6 mac book chargers that you can rent for 3 house, you can check it out, it’s a dollar per hour for an overdue fee, if you don’t give it back after 7 days you have to pay to replace it for 90$. We are publicizing it so tell your friends, 
	•	You get it for 3 hours for free and then 1 dollar for every extra hour. 
	•	Is it both Mac and PC
	•	Only Mac for now, it’s a pilot so we will gage and see how it goes. 
	•	Brad: as you can see we had free pizza today, that’s not normal, Norris just opened a new pizza place called Northshore pizza. They gave it to us looking for student feedback. 
	•	Too much oregano 
	•	Needs more tomato sauce
	•	Too much crust: too starchy too crunch
	•	Lauren: NOO!!!
	•	Wasn’t hot enough
	•	Not aesthetically pleasing. 
	•	Veggie options
	•	Pepperoni under the cheese 
	•	Ani: (caucus break out)
	•	Ani: Caucus Whips: Sarah Brock, greek, Lauren Johnson RHA RCB, Paul Koscumb Student Groups Ian Coley Off-Campus
	•	Brandon: Rules Elections
	•	John Kim, Ian, Dana, Nalin, Corey, Petros, Rebecca 
	•	John Kim: IFC representing Fiji, detail oriented, a good understanding of rules. I am a quick learner. I am always looking for more opportunities to get involved
	•	Ian: I have been in ASG for a long time and I have written a lot of legislation, I am very nit-picky, and I have been around a long time and I know how the rules work
	•	Dana: sophomore, I was a senator all of last year for 3 quarters, I held a temp position all of last quarter. Want to be a SC Justice
	•	Nalin: I was a senator for the 2010/11 academic year. I have experience with the govt services, started up my own company, have done a lot of work correcting papers
	•	Corey: new to senate, interested in getting as involved as possible, working for high school news paper, 
	•	Petros: sophomore representing Plex, I want to be a teacher, perfectionist streak, Basically, I am committeeless, I can devote all my time to rules, 
	•	Rebecca Sheeber, I represent the college republicans, I have some ideas for legislation but I am still a little new to this. I am really excited about being a little more involved in ASG. 
	•	Evan: what makes you better suited than other candidates
	•	John: I don’t have as much experience as other groups but I was an intern at a research and consulting company my job would be to advise companies based on what I learned but I am a detail oriented person
	•	Ian: What makes me better is that I have read the code and I have written a lot of bills myself that didn’t need a lot of improvement so when it comes to knowing the code I think I am the most experienced person up here, 
	•	Dana: last year, I have been working with Roberts rules since I was 13. I wrote the page in the student handbook
	•	Nalin: I was on the rules committee, I worked in an investigative branch involving police officers, in addition my past 2 internships I served as a research analyst at banks. I am a quick learner and good with details,
	•	Corey: I don’t have that kind of experience but I do have experience from my high school newspaper but I am a quick learner
	•	Petros: I don’t have as much experience, but I do have extraordinary amounts of time. I have no other committeemen’s other than ASG. I don’t really yell at people, I am very tactful about telling people to pt a comma in
	•	Rebecca: this summer I worked for a senator drafting and editing legislation. Yes people up here have more experience than I do, getting me in on this committee would be a good investment because I am willing to devote myself to this committee for the rest of my time here. 
	•	Neal: suppose I wrote a bill and it sucks, how will you tell me?
	•	Ian: I understand you haven’t been in senate, you need more “whereas”’s. 
	•	Dana: okay so most of your content is good, you’re on the right track but we need to work on the format, we can write this together. 
	•	Nalin: you have the right idea, with your bill however it doesn’t fit the write format for senate and we can’t allow it to pass in this form. You can go through it with us now or make the necessary changes. 
	•	Corey: We can work on it together
	•	Petros: we can work on getting the formalities of the bill nailed out. You didn’t respectfully submit it
	•	Rebecca: I’m really proud of you, obviously you’re committed to this idea and this concept; next time you come it’s going to be perfect and awesome. 
	•	John: there is no reason for the format to be wrong because it is online, if you don’t have the formatting its fine we can work that out for you,
	•	Brandon: you also have to be on the judicial board, can you state when you have been objective in the past and do you think you will be able to stay objective
	•	Dana: I have had leadership positions in the past where I have chaired different committees. When you know people you have to take their feelings into account but you have to be objective. 
	•	Nalin: in the past I have been in this situation, there was a case with absences in senate, and they ended up taking a break from senate. My experience with the police force you have to be objective
	•	Corey: I can site specific experience, but I am rather objective
	•	Petros: I can be passionate but only when its appropriate, 2 years ago when I was in high school one of my cast members never showed up and I had to replace him and it was important that I didn’t patronize but to find a solution
	•	Rebecca: I am on the judicial board of my sorority; I am also on the Weinberg school advisory judicial board that deals with some academic integrity cases. 
	•	John: I had to go through applications and reject a fair amount of my close friends and its really tough but you have to know what’s right and what’s wrong and know that its for the better
	•	Ian: I am on a tutoring committee and I would have to encourage a lot of my friends to apply and then cut them. I have done elections for RCB twice and presidential elections are pulled from within the group and it’s really tough. 
	•	Any: First piece of legislation is the Chief of Staff
	•	Brad: This piece of legislation requires many changes to the code, has been debated in Senate for a couple of years. Four years ago, there was a Director of HR in ASG, which turned into the Executive VP position. Since then, EVP has evolved to deal with internal accountability and sits on a lot of committees outside of ASG, becoming a much bigger position than originally envisioned. EVP no longer has time to deal with HR and recruitment. Brandon and Ani have taken up a lot of responsibility for senator recruitment and VPs have taken up a lot of responsibility for committee member recruitment. Many aspects of internal management have fallen by the wayside. The Chief of Staff would centralize and streamline recruitment efforts and deal with surveys, performance reviews, etc. This legislation has been co-signed by the entirety of the exec board aside from Ani and Brandon, who must abstain. Would like to move to old business tonight
	•	Ian: Subsection 9, what minutes?
	•	Brad: Wednesday ASG exec meetings are open, Sunday meeting minutes are closed to exec only.
	•	Dana: If passed tonight, would we select tonight?
	•	Brad: Cabinet selection process. Would open up process immediately.
	•	Sarah: Why so many committees?
	•	Brad: There are many different roles.
	•	Isaac: Why is it just a code change?
	•	Brad: Constitutional change isn’t necessary. We will revisit in the future if the position is successful.
	•	Rebecca: When will application be due?
	•	Brad: Sunday night, interviews Monday and Tuesday, position for Wednesday.
	•	Michelle: Why was position eliminated?
	•	Brad: Tommy Smithburg created the position. He created the position and then took it as EVP. He eliminated the position and gave the duties to himself. Now my position handles a lot more internal accountability and internal organization
	•	Noah: so will you appoint a new person in the spring, 
	•	Motoki: back when it was the human resource director, was he election commissioner?
	•	Brad: no
	•	Isaac: I motion to move this to old business, 
	•	Seconded and Objected
	•	Ani: debate over moving this to old business
	•	Isaac: I don’t really see why we cant just discuss this now, 
	•	Brad: 2 things, I think if you want to further discuss this that is perfectly legitimate, another reason why we should move this to old business is because there is another piece of legislation that is dependant about how we vote on this. 
	•	CON: Mark: I signed onto this bill because I really like it but after looking at it more closely I think it is important that we let this get discussed not in this forum, 
	•	Henry: this is not time sensitive, 
	•	PRO: David: I think the issues are limited enough that they can be hashed out on the floor pretty quickly and I think it will require a lot of work on the exec board and it is important to get the ball rolling
	•	Con: Dana: I am uncomfortable moving anything to old business without talking to my caucus
	•	Steven: I am nervous that if this bill is moving in tandem with the clerk position that we let this see
	•	Henry: I wouldn’t want to pull a fast one on senate 
	•	Jesse: why not have this be one bill?
	•	Brad: we wanted to be able to pass the Chief of staff legislation even if the clerk wouldn’t pass
	•	VOTE: Will be brought up next week as New Business
	•	Brad: what this bill is going to do, this is already a large exec at 14 and we are trying to add another one, we are at the 84th percentile among other KOFI schools, we want to roll the clerical positions to the Parliamentarian position. Carly is being incredibly under utilized and the scope of her position is not allowing her to do so. 
	•	Motoki: is there a reason why you didn’t give the whole minute taking task to the Parliamentarian, 
	•	Brad: P is officer of senate; COF is an officer of the entire body. It makes more sense this way. 
	•	Rebecca: we elected Carly a quarter ago, why is she just be getting cut out?
	•	Brad: She would be nominated for Chief of Staff role. 
	•	We decided to make the decision that it didn’t make sense to just expand the role. 
	•	X: is there a possibility that carly is just a go-getter?
	•	Brad: were a 200 person organization would have a human resources director
	•	John: since you have this as 2 different pieces of legislation, assuming carly wants the COF. 
	•	Dana: what does changing the constitution mean? What other steps do we have to take?
	•	Ani: in terms of changing the constitution, senate has to ratify it by 2 thirds, it can be thrown into referendum (all of campus) senate has to hold at least one public forum a week before the amendment, so changing the constitution is far harder than the code. The clerk is mentioned in the constitution, 
	•	Henry: Motion to table it indefinitely until it is presented as a constitutional amendment. 
	•	Seconded
	•	Tabled indefinitely
	•	Student Group Apportionment Review: a process that takes place in which we have student groups apply for a seat. The process takes place in the beginning of fall quarter so the groups have enough time to select a senator. This is a very unfortunate time to do this process, they are not all the concerned with ASG. Because student groups transition in the beginning of spring quarter, someone was elected to do a job they thought they would have for the whole year and they now no longer have that seat. We would like to move this process to the end of winter quarter, the only change we would have to make, is to change the Chief of Staff who is supposed to 
	•	Motoki: it says the EVP is supposed to make the app, that should be COS
	•	Brad: last year asg passed the 5k initiative we are trying to make a couple enhancements and were trying to codify it so that is sits as a standing committee rather than an ad hoc committee, we are changing it from once a quarter to once a year and this will allow us to get more submission, there is also just not that much that we can do for 5k on this campus, the way this was originally funded was that ASG would put up 5k and it would be matched by student affairs. That will happen just once. The committee will work on getting submissions all fall quarter and right at the end of winter quarter we can vote. 
	•	Paul: you said 5k is coming from student affairs, the other 5k is in the ASG budget, in the future are you assuming that you will be pulling 10k from the ASG funds. 
	•	Yes
	•	Michele: were most of the ideas that were rejected last year doable with 10k rather than 5?
	•	Brad: yes, 
	•	Steven: originally it was 5k every quarter why is it not the 15k?
	•	Brad: 10k is more sustainable
	•	Ian: do you think student affairs will want a say in the final submission
	•	Brad: no, this is entirely our process
	•	X: how many students voted?
	•	697
	•	Motion to move this to old business
	•	PASSED
	•	Ani: this is now old business
	•	Henry: how are you going to get more people to vote?
	•	Brad: more time will allow us to better publicize this
	•	Alex: do you have any idea what is going to get cut?
	•	Brad: its coming out of the SAFC so its coming out of the student groups not ASG
	•	Ian: do you think taking 5k out of your budget is going to have an impact Girish?
	•	Girish: I think it’s a terrible idea.
	•	Jesse: is there any way that the school will pay for it?
	•	Brad: that’s not a match they are willing to match
	•	Henry: how much wasn’t used for the groups. 
	•	Girish: there is no surplus
	•	Alex: this is coming out of the 1.3 million?
	•	Brad: in our 46000 dollar budget, we have a line item out of this budget this year of 5000. 
	•	Jesse: can we allow donors to put their name on it?
	•	Rebecca: is there a way to do this without the 10000
	•	The legislation states that any money that is not used will be rolled into the next year, we can also select 2 winners. 
	•	Josh: say the most popular vote was a crappy idea, how would that be dealt with?
	•	Brad: the committee narrows down the 10 most feasible ideas and then those get put out for a final vote. 
	•	Sarah: could we only allocate 5k and if it is worthy add 10k
	•	Brad: senate can do what it wants but I don’t recommend that
	•	Mark: Student affairs agreed to match it this year?
	•	Brad: yes they agreed this year, we wanted to make the program better and only pass it this year. 
	•	Brad: I would advocate codifying it now so that it doesn’t get forgotten however if the reason that this doesn’t pass is because the future budget than I think you should strike it because I think its important. 
	•	Rebecca: 
	•	Ian: I think its more likely that Student affairs will be more likely to renew the 5k grant each year
	•	Jesse: how do we go about getting more money, how do we rally the school to support this?
	•	Brad: SAF: 52$ per quarter per student, any changes to that would have to be approved by the board of trustees, it would take a few years to change that. We have had some of those conversations to see if we can change that, it’s a project were working on, but its not sustainable for this bill. 
	•	Girish: it does grow every year. 
	•	Ani: debate on the legislation 
	•	Motion to table it for a week. 
	•	Motoki: it seems like there are a bunch of issues with the money that need to be hashed out, 
	•	Henry: we should table it, I don’t know how much this would affect other student groups, there are only 15 min left. 
	•	Brad: that is a piss poor reason 
	•	Henry: yeah but nobody wants to. 
	•	Brad: lets pass it for this year so we can get the show on the road and there is a lot of work to get done this quarter, we really only have until thanksgiving. Lets pass the rest of the bill later. 
	•	Girish: my only concern is to the money I love this program. 
	•	Dana: I think it is better to just amend it
	•	Mark: motion to amend, strike the line about future funding, the 2nd clause in the action.
	•	Debate on the Amendment
	•	Pro: Mark lets just get it on
	•	Motion to vote on the amendment
	•	PASSES. 
	•	Motion to PQ
	•	Motoki: is the selection process on the committee the same as last year?
	•	Brad: yes
	•	The legislation changes the position to be headed by the EVP rather than the president
	•	Ani: all in favor of passing this legislation?
	•	PASSED. 
	•	Rules winners: Dana, Ian, and Rebecca. 
	•	
	•	
	•	
	•	
	•	
