Senate 5/2
Ani: were going to go ahead and get going with roll call…
In the interest of being environmentally friendly we are moving towards a projector based agenda, SGC confirmations. 
Lauren: the SGC did spring recruitment bc everyone moved to exec, we had a lot of apllicants and I selected 6 after speaking to my committee members, were confirming everyone who was not confirmed, if you could come up here to the front
If you guys don’t know what we do, the committee who works with the B status group these guys will be the ones responcible for recommending funds to the B and T status, these guys wil talk about their experience, these guys will make the recs for funding
Andrew
Ben Eisenberg
Neil
Motoki
Kate
Lauren
Paul Chu
Nick Degancy
Ani: were going to move into a brief question session, these are the people were entrusting to talk to over 200 groups
Ian: can I just ask about the selection process?
Lauren: an obsticle cource, I did some serious publicity, I reviewd their apps and then had interviews with my committee and some members helped, and that was good. The interviews were 20 min each. 
X: what are some of the problems with SGC and how are these people qualified to fix it
Nick: how to better foster relationships btwn groups, it is something we have been working on and will continue to work on
Paul: I have no previous experience, but I want to bring more effective communication
Lauren: exec board turnover, making sure old knowledge is passed down
Kate: wild cat connection, trouble with that, some of my friends missed the activities fairs I think wildcat connection is the biggest problem, I am tring to transform that site into a more interactive site. Interviews posted online, 
Motoki: I agree with what has been said, exec transition is a huge part of how groups disapeer, being able to apply the knowledge from groups we work with and show them how to effectively transition and to have groups collaborate, we have a lot of groups coming in with similar mission statements, 
Neil: people don’t know how to allocate funds and we need to teach them how to ask for what they need
Ben: I have been to one meeting so I cant tell you how problems but I am looking to form relationships rather than just being a number
Andrew:Use your resources to really get events out and to help these groups as much as we can
Ani: Any objections to moving to the vote? (confirmed)
Were gonna move back into exec board reports
David Chi: a really good service opportunity may 9th, epic academy a charter high school with 150 students coming in we have a partnership with them for the past 2 years. Essentially the kids come in we give them a tour from 10 to 11 and then they can either sit in on a class or eat lunch with a NU mentor and get a sense of college. There will be a student panel that I need about 10 students to come sit on and talk to these kids about what it means to be a student and why it is important. What the expectations are. I need volunteers, I understand Wednesdays are hard for you guys but im gonna send ani a link with times and expectation and so please look that over and consider making it an experience. 
Ani: this is something ASG does every year so we need help. 
Steven: tere are some student groups ehre, there is an even coming up right after dillo day reNUvation, a day where we quickly clean up the mess we all help make on dillo day, if there is anyone that has any connects with service groups, we would really appreciate co sponcering, if you do have connections, talk to your exec boards, but sometimes its better if youre giving them a nudge
Brandon: were gonna start the rules training tues at 8, this is required for all new senators, if you have an excuse please be sure to send me an email and let me know
ANi: we have some senators
Andrew: a freshman repping Bob, I don’t live there, SESPE econ, LOC
Sally: repping Alison, I don’t live there, freshman bio chem.. 
Ani: its really ahrd to fill these seats at then end of the year so we are trying to give these people some experience. 
Were going to move into intro to funding which oversees all A status
Girish: Finantial VP, funding just wrapped up last night, we deliberated for about 40 hours on that so now its up to you guys to vote on what we have done. The way it works, every student at NU pays into the activities fees each student pays 150 dollars a year, we get 95% of funding, there are 40 A status groups, the way we allocate is through a rigorous app process that includes all programming for the past year as well as all requests for the upcoming year. They need to request for specific items, we are bound by their requests, after those apps, they come in and interview, we had about 15 hours of interviews but they pretty much walk us through their apps and give us a ton of info that we use to come up with a recommendation, using that info we come up with recs for you guys for what each event deserves, what we look at is quality, attendance, our relationship with the group, their contact with Natalie, finantial misconduct, group misconduct, a reflection on bad communication, those recs were finished last night and Ani will send them out to you. If you guys want paper, we are going to print a few but we wont be giving them out to everyone, once you get these recs you have a week to go over them, I encourage you to talk to people you know in these groups, it is all contingent on your votes. 
Senate amendment pool 54,000
This is your money to allocate as you wish, the add round groups will come in and tell you why they think they need more than what they have been given. 
You don’t have to use all of this money. 
There is also subfunding and this pool has been growing, any money you don’t use will go to programming in the fall so don’t feel the need to spend it all
It is very much based on the tiers they have given
If an event has never been funded before we don’t fund it, we are very conservative, we want groups to show that they have been able to put it on by itself
Any group that is funded by us they need to have 3% in their account at all times
Capital improvements are funded in the subcycle in the fall, we don’t do that now, think about groups that are asking for iPads, think about if they need it
We do not fund food, that will come up next Wednesday
That was a quick rundown
We are goin got run through some scenarios, 
Ani: this is now new business, next Wednesday we will do this now we are going to do mock funding for NU Line dancing team which does not exist so here is a mock situation
Are there any motions to add?
Lauren: motion to add funding to line dancing jamboree, I would like to ad 30% increase, funded in full, heres how it happened, the line dancing jamboree was the most magical night at my time here, I met my current BF as did several other people and I think that that is most important. We had a 50% increase in our attendance. And we only got 6% increase in funding that doesn’t make sense! That’s why it should be funded in full
Ani a not from the board
TOri: we would love to increase this even more but 30% is not sustainable, we believe that a 6% increase is more than enough
Girish: increase this year was 4% on the pool, so, a little info based on what tori said, we have to be conservative, so we don’t outshoot the growth of the pool, most groups overtime have an increase on attendance so we have to be conservative. 
Ani: just to clarify there are cut and add rounds, senators… motions to add funding
Lauren: motion to add funding to the fall speaker? Okay I would like to fund the fall speaker event in full, let me tell you what happened we requested funds for this last year, we were denied, we made it wonderful without their money. 30 people came we brought a speaker, and they said to come once we did it by ourselves and we did and they only gave 150$ when we asked for 6000$
Tori: we funded the publicity and venu but this is a new event and to give such a large increase to a new event is not sustainable. 
Girish: groups come up with new events all the time and we would love for Lauren to come back to us next year and we would be able to give more. Normally you guys would vote on it but we just want you to understand basic scenarios
Lauren: I motion to add funds to the line dancing competition in full. This line dancing competition which takes place in texas with only the line dancing team. This is the time where we bond and show of NU to texas. It is what we train for all year and the fact that we cant get funding from NU for what matters most is obserd
TOri: as a board the SAF is funded by all students so events we fund must be accessible to events that are open to all group. 
Girish: we don’t fund groups, we fund programming so performance teams don’t receive funds from this body to attend competition. 
Lauren: usually its like “we want silverware for an internal event” we want to make sure all the programming SAF funds is open to everyone, consider who it is open to. 
Girish: any questions?
Ani: it is a very confusing process but this is our attempt to make sure everyone is on the same page
Girish: this is our attempt to make sure that funding doesn’t go on multiple day
Ani: the following week we will have B status funding. 
Ani:we will move to an update from Mark Silberg and the rest of the committee. This is for the legislation you passed on green Accredidation, they are an ad hoc committee and they are giving you their update. We require this of all of our working group, last week we had one from transportation and this is so you guys know what is going on and they would love to have feedback from you guys. 
Mark:my name is Mark Silberg, I made this slid show on my newly illegally downloaded version of Keynote, we broke up our task into 3 parts
Survey
Interest
Implementation
We finished surveying, on their current behavior, paper use, transportation. 
We had 30 groups respond across the board. 
On paper use: a large majority of students, more than half were flyering on the ground and in buildings. Most student groups don’t know what kind of paper they were using whether or not it is recycle content paper. We would like to address this
Chalking, we think that this is a way to avoid using paper products on the ground
We asked groups if they could eliminate paper use and be as effective
Transportation: while a lot of groups walk or bike, many groups use personal vehicles to travel around Evanston
Food and events: most student groups do not use red meat at their events 
Food wast: most groups don’t produce food waste. This is another issue we oculd address
Some groups don’t recycle on campus
Why do you choose not to buy locally: its more expensive
This is a common misconception
Is your group sustainable, how can you be sustainable
Many were open to being educated and didn’t know how to
Inconvencience price and not knowing, were reason for not being
We want to have a 2 step approach
Education 
Encouragement
Our hope is to educate groups and ultimately from our data, there are a wide veritey of events that are sustainable and not, find ways for asg to implement sustainability
Ani: Sophia and Lauuren do you want to talk about your work
Sophia: I noticed that whenever someone responded, they honestly did not have clear answers to our questions. These responcibilities were not delegated, it would benefit groups to have this delegated
Lauren: we split the work, a lot of groups are now having green chairs
Mark: we did a lot of work together splitting up the work and getting the survey out, they were awesome this is looking goof. 
Ani: this is what working groups do!
Steven: they do work!
Ani: they come back and report results and we move forward from there. Let me know if you are interested in working on one let me know, we will find something for you to do
The next order of business is Spring funding
Side note, don’t use cell phones or comps in front of you its rude
Steven: can we quickly move to new business, increasing election transparency
We decided this is important bc currently election guidelines only apply during spring quarter and it is very unclear about what is and is not allowed of what is and is not allowed leading up to elections. We want to make sure this is clear and codify it for all people in the future, next year the election committee will be made much sooner and people who are interested in running must meet with the committee and they have to explicitly say their purpose for these meeting. Just to shine light on this gray area and to make sure no potential candidates have a misunderstanding for what is or is not allowed and to ensure an equal playing field for all. 
Aaron: why don’t you justhave the election during the winter quarter
Steven: this isnt meant to extend the campaign period, but these meetings are necessary to prepare oneself and this is just to clarify and we don’t want any action to be perceived the wrong way
Aaron: if youre making the election commission winter quarter, wh not just start campaigning then?
Steven: the legislation will start that converstation, we don’t want people flyering and chalking. We just want public knowledge for student group leaders to reach out. I guess I can kind of roll this into the next one…
Ian: what would you do if a candidate over stepps the boundaries
Steven: I cant answer that, I don’t think people should be slammed so they cant run but I think there should be violations incase
Ani: the new guidelines which are going to stay till next year say that if there is a violation then it is referred to the rules committee. 
Steven: the purpose of this is to clarify what verbal campaigning means prior to the campaign. 
Steven: this bill, I have heard from a lot of people on this campus, there was an oversaturation of campaigning, so dormstorming is not allowed, candidates wont be allowed to do that any more. I don thtink this is perfect and I am open to friendly amendments, I think elections should occur as quickly as possible. 
Ian: it was university res life that said no dormstorming, it is now a university policy, that you are not allowed to do that
Brad: it has always been a policy that it wasn’t allowed and an acception was made for asg but that exception has now been revoked
Steven: this could be a little conversation but I want to get the conversation started the reason we all cosigned this is because what we heard from students is that the campaign went on for too long, that’s where I am coming from on this. I would encourage everyone to talk to students and what their feelings were about this. If we passed the previous bills, candidates identities will surface sooner, I just don’t think we should be spamming FB for too long. 
I view the two periods as being pretty distinct, you need a lot of publicity, but meeting with student group leaders is different, I see your point but that would be a pretty radical change. I am just trying to think about what would make students happy, I don’t think everyone would be happy about 3 month campaigns. 
Ani: this will be old business next week
Ian: are the two authors of the NUproject pool here? Motion to move up that legislation up now. 
Lauren: hi everyone I am treasurer of NU gives back we will give quick recap. It is a day of service in may and give back to the broader community, we are asking you for 1000 dollars for transportation to sights that are not otherwise accessible, we really want to make it a broad day of service, we are citizens of the chicagoland area. We need your help for that. We couldn’t ask for funding- we were not granted B status, we only have one day of programming and we are hopping to be exempt from the B status rules for funding bc this really is looking to give back. We would have a great sponcership, you will be on our banners shirts, and you will be recorded as our first sponcer
Patrick: we have the money available right?
Motoki: do you guys have a way to work around your budget, do you have a plan B? 
Lauren: yes, we have had other academic departments, but it will be difficult because it is in the next two weeks, 
Rebecca: this is a security thing. The bare minimum needs to happen 
Ani: factoring in the 5k initiative, and other project pool detractions, we have 1500 dollars. I urge you guys to do away with the notion that we have to save money, you are supposed to consider requests on a case by case bassis you don’t know if people will ask
Mark: I don’t want to spend it on transportation but I do want to help you. We cant fund those things, its not sustainable thing. Is there a durable thing we can sponcer?
Lauren: yes we do give everyone a T-shirt to emphasize the community. All of our sponcers are on the back of the shirts, the budget for that is 1500 dollars. 
X: right now where are you getting the money for the shirts
Lauren: we want our budget to be at 6000 to pay off everything, we are at 5000 now, that extra 1000 would be going for shirts. 
Mark: question to the parliamentary body, what is the accountability item?
Ani: we are requesting for a specific purpose so if we fund them it has to go to a specific line item. 
Patrick: it sounds like we have a specific stipulation the money should go to shirts. 
Lauren: yeah whatever you guys give us money to we will use. 
Ani: is there a second to the amendment? (seconded)
Girish: what are the three things that it goes to?
T-shirts
Food
Transportation
Girish: if you were to fund just 1000 for transportation, are you gonna spend the money no matter what? 
Rebecca: we are only going to spend 2000 on transportation only, it is the most condenced version of transport we can make. We are going to use no more than 6000 of funding. 
Patrick: it sounds like we are just covering our asses, changing the line item, 
Ani: cons? PQ? All in favor of passing the amendment for t shirts not transport
(passed)
Motoki: eventhough RHA is funding the same amount will we still be the first contribution?
Lauren: yes
ANi: before we move to PQ we call for debate, we should be going through 2 or 3 rounds of pro con for this bill
Abby: I think this is a really good opportunity for senate to get NU into the greater Chicago area, this involves so many groups and I think for ASG to have our name on that would help us. 
Ian: how many people attended last year and how many are you expecting
Rebecca: around 350 last year
Lauren: 450 is our minimum this year. 
Ani: motion to PQ? All in favor of passing?
(confirmed)
Ani:onto our next bill, improving the NU curriculum
Ian: basically, I will keep this brief, it does require some discussion, the point of this committee is to take projects and put it into another committee that will function differently. For these projects, they have been going on some time I am positive that these projects will take for a long time, maybe a year, to suggest that we can put them on the academic committee, is unrealistic. These projects already have passionate people behind them, it is good to keep them off to the side so Neil can focus on what he platformed. 
X: have these things been worked on by anyonen within the Academic committee, 
Ian: I am on the academic committee, but due to timing, these were not able to be worked on. The academic was mostly stagnant this winter
Abby: have you spoken to the administration about this? Would this committee be able to hold any weight?
Ian: there was a project last spring to get lab credit for lab sciences, that came to the admin from the academic committee. If you think the ASG doesn’t hold any weight…
Motoki: would you feel comfortable reportingn to Neil?
Ian: of course to meet with admin, it would have to be through the Academic committee?
X: why wouldn’t you just amend to refocus by the aademic committee?
Ian: these projects are outside from neils platform which we amended to uphold, the way I think neil is looking to take the committee, these people would drag down the committee, because they only have one focus. To really feel out what the body wants from other groups, their time would be too monopolized through projects. It’s a way to get more work done which needs more people. 
Ani: were going to move into a debate period, 
Really quickly we mentioned campaign promises it mandates that all the VPs are supposed to return from the exec retreat with a list of projects that will be reported to senate and then a new date will be set to report to senate again. Were gonna move into pro con about that. Next week the priorities are coming. 
Ian: all im proposing that we get more work done with people who have demonstrated an ability, 
Victor: I think this should be tabled, you don’t know what the projects are going to be for the academic committee, we can definitely incorporate a lot of these ideas, I don’t think it is appropriate to create a new committee. I think that mary grace brought up a good point, the committee has legitimacy, I don’t think we want to dilute that. 
Ed (con): I have a problem with the argument that the different committee has their hands ties by the campaign promises and I think that if we are going to set a precident in their campaign that they are not allowed to work on that
Franciis: If were just going to ignore legislation, why would we just ignore it. I agree these groups shouldn’t be stunted
Ed: if youre using that bill you’re manipulating it, 
Ian: what was said, I don’t think im manipulating the bill, but im down to table, rather than seeing this shot down because I think these projects are very important, as far as the cultural requirements, 
Mark: motion to suspend the rules, and ask neil a question. (passed)
Do you intend to include these things in your platform, ?
Neil: yeah I think a lot of them already were,
Motoki: motion to postpone for a week
Ian: if we consider that were tabling for a week to next week which is funding then funding, I respect that funding takes a long time which is unfortunate.
Tori: so would we be voting on this before funding, or after funding
Ani: after, the options you have before you. Postpone to a definite time or indefinitely. if its indefinitely, someone has to remember it and bring it back. 
Girish: I have already told everyone that funding starts at 730, 
Ani: you can choose 
Motoki: campaign promises is coming next week, if you don’t like how neil covers it than we can reconsider it. I don’t care if your tired from fonding, youre senators
Ian: (con) I would only accept postpone for a week if its actually a week, if its pushed back more than that it is unacceptable. More than a week would be too long to start work on this
Victor: I think this should be postponed till fall quarter, we should give Neil a chance to have a powerful committee, especially bc senate has the power to amend his platform to include all of these projects. 
David: point of info: with the acception of those obstaing, what was said is unanimous among exec. 
Mark: nobody is arguing against eachother, if we sense that theis is not a priority that these committees have then there may be a need for another committee but I also don’t think at this point of time we can decide this. I don’t want to rashly put it off until the fall
X: how many meetings do we have? 
Ani: There is one more that is not funding on the 23. 
Victor: I think is should be postponed indefinitely, 
Girish: funding on the 16th will not take that long. 
Ani: Any other pro speeches: were going to move to a vote, 
(division)
David: “There is so much drama! This one’s a close one!”
16 to 15 vote
David: “That’s epic!!!”
Victor: “How awesome is that?”
Rejected motion to postpone bill by a week
Motoki motions to postpone for two weeks
David: “Are you for real?”
There is a second
X: “When you postpone something indefinitely, can you bring it up any time?”
Mark: “Ooh, let’s do that.”
Ani: all in favor of postponing to two weeks?
(passed)
Ani: how did you guys feel about the forum last week?
Jane: I thought is was good but it was frustrating to have interupritons, I think there was 
X: I think it was really irresponcible for PTI to come and not speak
Tori: I think it was very unproductive, and there was a lot of emotion. If were going to do something like that again it needs structure
Ian: as far as PTI, she was insistant that she be here, she was not supposed to be in senate at all, the fact that she stayed was troubling
Brad: the process for PTI was that her and other admin were invited to come and not speek, admin were supposed to be able to observe. When we met with her earlier, she said, she was only coming if she could present her case. That decision was questionable in hindsight. 
Francis: I thought it was a good idea to have a forum because this is where students should be able to do that. But when the object of tension was here, she should have left. If it was supposed to be between studets then it should really be amongst students
I think there needs to be more structure like then Tyrrus interrupted and you asked him to stop he just kept going. 
Dana: I found it personally really frustrating, after the discussion, once we got down to business once we tried to pass legislation, the room cleared. It was disheartening
Prathusha: I wasn’t here but I heard really strong members from various groups that was here. Our goal is to brisdge the gap, they had a chance to come to senate and speak their mind. The community saw that ASG was trying to take action and hear people out, people felt it was the tright thing to do and I think we should promot that in furture senate
Mark: I want to return to PTI, if we invite students and admin, those students need to respect these rules and your rules and the degree of respect was very low. I think the exec and parliamentary student body need to figure out how to not have that structure
Neil: I think feature events should have structure, but Wednesday was good, people were able to get their anger out and from that we have had a few really good events like on Friday at deering. I think while that event was very uncomfortable at times, what has come from that has been great
Lauren: I have heard the senate thing, we shouldn’t be hard on ourselves, all the admin and profs took note of that and they bring up tis event when taking part of this issue. It was the start of like neil said things blossoming from it. 
Ani: any last comments then good of the order
I was sitting at the event and the person sitting next to me said that she appreciated it was a neutral space and that is really important to some people and I want to thank you guys for listening and being good hosts, being able to come here made it clear that it was important to them
Ian: (applause for Ani)
David: real quick I want to say two things 
Four new service committee Derrick Cox, Larry, there are 4 new service members. Oh Krish, really excited to have them join the committee
Second thank you so much, there were no senators not on services that came, which was frustrating. We had great contibutions from 20 people but I really wish you guys had joined in that because I fee llike I say every week something about owning your position. 
Ian: would you be open to having another brainstorm?
David: to be honest, I feel like we are more focused on working the ideas we have already. 
Brad: to build off what david was saying on ideas, a few of us have office hours, if you have ideas, please come to those before the retreat, please do come and take advantage of that.
	•	Victor: If you cant make it to those please send me and brad ideas. The more ideas we have going into the retreat. 
