


Northwestern University
Associated Student Government
Meeting of the Senate
January, 21, 2014
 
	•	Call to Order and Roll Call
	•	Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
	•	Executive Board Reports
	•	General Order: Dining Master Plan Focus Group
	•	Rob: Thanks for giving us the time, we scheduled around you guys, because we don’t often get the chance to come before Student Senate. We are looking at big picture things and in order to do that, we need to understand what we’re doing now. We look at a lot of programs, but we’re really trying to figure out what to do at Northwestern. I heard a bit about sustainability, locations, meal plans, etc. What we’re looking for is what the current issues are that we can delve into over the next 6 months. 
	•	Sojo: What are the key issues you’ve noticed?
	•	Isaac: As a member of the greek community who lives in a residential hall, we have to buy meal plans even though some greek houses require you to have meal plans as well. I essentially throw away money, because I never use those meals. 
	•	Lauren: I think the costs are just ridiculous. On the block plan, each of my meals is $16.50. A lot of other schools use points instead of meals and I think that would be a lot better of a system. 
	•	Sojo: Why would people not have meal plans? 
	•	Off-campus, don’t eat at dining halls and not often at Norris. 
	•	Noah: I’d like to see a meal plan just for Norris. 
	•	Chris: Rob and Sojo aren’t with Sodexo, they are hired as separate consultants. So be brutal, but not brutal at them. 
	•	Kevin: I’d like to see a way to use points in Evanston businesses. 
	•	Daniel: There seems to be discrepancy in the quality of fresh produce between the different dining halls. Hinman kills it and Elder is not so good. 
	•	Bella: That reminded me that I’ve never seen an avocado in the dining hall. Maybe in Alison once a week there is a fresh fruit salad, but that’s a once a week thing. 
	•	Korri: I would love to see some sort of interaction with student groups that concerns food, like Spoon. 
	•	Isaac: Dining can help solidify the perceived divide between North and South campus. There is only one that’s in the middle and it isn’t even really in the middle. People eat on their side of campus and separate communities develop. 
	•	Matt: We’ve touched on the quality of dining halls and fruit availability, I’ve eaten a lot in Alison or Plex and been to the others. Generally, there aren’t many people taking the apples, bananas, etc. Sometimes they have melon, but it’s not the quality you would want. There’s a difference between having fruit available and having fruit people would want. People also want more of a selection. 
	•	Christina: Some have great vegetarian/vegan and some do not, so I’d like that to be consistent. I think people would like to buy ingredients at C-stores. I think people would like to see where things come from and also where they come from. There is often a discrepancy between the label and what the food actually is. 
	•	Noah: I think having more local and more sustainable sourcing would be great. 
	•	-: There are more than one faRm to table restaurants in Evanston and I think there are ways to get those restaurants in the guest appearances in the dining halls. Let’s change up the pace!
	•	Parag: There needs to be consolidation of the dining halls or destination dining, where there are different kinds of foods at different places. 
	•	Daniel: In terms of the people who work there, most have been there forever and are great, but some I always get undercooked chicken, etc. The labels have unrealistic serving options. 
	•	Lauren: Willard specifically is really hit or miss, because it’s not very good for options, since it’s smaller. With the convenience stores, I think we just need healthier options. Also, our hummus, peanut butter and butter all taste kind of weird. 
	•	Christina: I also don’t know what four ounces is if they say that on the label. There should be some form of reference. 
	•	Nehaarika: I think that the dining hall hours are so inconvenient with our class schedules. Also I’ve seen the people make pasta with meat and then use the same utensils to serve vegetarian food. 
	•	Kevin: I think Parag’s comment on dining destination is really interesting. I mainly eat lunch in Norris on my very small meal plan, but I think restaurant/full meal places would be great farther North on campus. It’d be nice to have something like Frontera up North. 
	•	Joshua: It’d be nice to have a late night option on North Campus. As someone who lives in Elder, it seems like it’s only a half dining hall. It’s kind of like a ghost town. 
	•	Matt: Kind of similar to Kevin, I think it’d be nice to expand the grab and go options on South campus. Something I’d really like to see is in the Student Center, some kind of rotating featured restaurant from Evanston. That would change periodically through the year. One to expose people to Evanston restaurants and increase options. 
	•	Eric: Maybe more on the go meals in dining halls in general. 
	•	Olivia: Currently if you try to take anything out, they don’t like you to.
	•	Austin: I think living wages for our staff is really important as well. There was a campaign my freshman year around that. 
	•	Matt: It’d be great if we could use our equivalencies or points at Kellogg. 
	•	Kevin: In a similar vein, I wish we could use points/meals at the Athletic stadium. 
	•	Bella: Eric was telling me he got food from the Garrett Evangelical Center for $4 and that echoes the disparity between food prices. 
	•	Daniel: Not only are the options for grab and go over priced, but they are also not very healthy. An incentive for off campus plans would be to give them some sort of discount. Even if it’s terrible for you, at least it’s a bit cheaper!
	•	Sojo: Something from the focus group earlier was about community. How is that here? 
	•	Matt: When I was on a meal plan, I felt mainly that the hours made it so you just had to make do. It was hard to find a time where everyone could eat together. 
	•	Aeryn: It was the same way for me and if I wanted to have a nice time to hang out, we’d go to a restaurant in Evanston. 
	•	Wendy: Definitely extended hours, but especially on the weekends. 
	•	Kevin: I would say three quick things. More TVs in the dining halls on sports channels and current events, I think that creates more community. Being able to used dining halls in the evenings would be great, since that’s open space. Also if off campus students could get their groceries from dining halls would be interesting, something like Amazon Fresh. 
	•	Lauren: I live in a res college and we have our own room and always see someone I know, so there is community. 
	•	Bella: If the goal is to increase community, then I think you have to consider having a dining hall in every dorm. 
	•	Joshua: In Elder, basically everyone who lives in Elder lives in Elder and that’s pretty nice. 
	•	Liz: Frans is a really good model for late night and for community. People go down there to do homework between 8 and 2 and was super helpful when I lived there. Open during homework hours could promote community. 
	•	Kenny: I think the North-South divide, I definitely feel it. Willard and Alison have really strong communities, and Sargent is the main hub for North Campus with the athletes. With the new Norris, there definitely needs to be better options. With a better student union, we could refocus and have a cohesive community. 
	•	Sojo: Catering. Do you guys order food? What have your experiences been? 
	•	Daniel: I think there shold be options for ordering less food, because we always have too much. 
	•	Isaac: ASG hosted a conference and we ordered from Sodexo, because we had to, since we were hosting in Norris. It was more expensive and less food than the previous day when we didn’t have to - and lower quality. 
	•	Kaley: Sodexo is just ridiculously expensive and normally not good. It makes a lot sense to get it at somewhere like potbelly. 
	•	Daniel: We have a big event in Alianza with a lot of food, but it seems like the food is just there and nobody is there to refill it or reheat, etc. 
	•	-: We’re doing an event for my theatre board and it’s Jewish, so there need to be Kosher options. With our history with Sodexo, we can’t trust that something will be vegetarian or kosher. 
	•	Christina: For sustainability, some of the norms are decidedly unsustainable if you don’t ask to change it. Also take out options!
	•	Wendy: The people that work at the stations is part of the community, if they are happy people, that makes me happy. 
	•	Bella: One thing Sodexo has started to do is fun themed events or pop up dining, which I think it really cool. Last year in Sargent there was a Luau thing. They also do competitions between the dining halls, which I think are fun. It obviously costs more than the normal day to day, but I think it’s valuable. 
	•	Kaley: It kind of sucks to not be able to do the Block plan as a Freshman. 
	•	Daniel: The all you can eat mode of the dining hall is very useful to me. 
	•	Liz: I don’t eat the same as a 20 year old boy and I don’t like have to pay the same amount for so much less. 
	•	Serene: I live off campus and late at night it would be nice to have places to go. What if the university could make a deal with a cafe to stay open later. Or have Northwestern nights at places. 
	•	Isaac: In the 80s there used to be a bar in Norris. Bring back the Norris bar. 
	•	General Order: Student Groups Vice President Confirmation: Kenny Mok
	•	Noah: We selected Kenny because he is immensely qualified. We liked his experience in ASGa and also his outside experience. 
	•	Kenny: I’m running for VP for student groups, because I really care about student groups. I think student group funding is one of the most important parts of ASG. When I first came to Northwestern, I was more than excited to meet people with different interests. That enthusiasm carried over into getting involved in other things, like my Greek chapter and APAC. As Outreach Chair in APAC, I got to understand more about the multicultural community. I’ve also had experience with larger groups and smaller groups like Supplies for Dreams. At the end of last year, I was presented with leadership positions in these groups, but I decided to throw myself farther into ASG. I thought it was the best way for me to contribute. Through my experience as a Group Executive, I was advising mainly theater groups as well as some others. I began to understand more unique group needs and why it was so important. I have so much respect to theater students, especially, because they have so much to go through. There are ways we can make it easier. I’ve been involved inside and outside of the committee in conversations about how to make funding better. It is important to look at how we can support groups equitably, not just focusing on open events. Finally, four main things. I want to redefine what a GE can be, because a huge interaction between ASG and non-ASG is through the SGC. I want to address nontraditional groups and how we can support them, like community service, performance, and publications. I also really want to address over-programming. There are great events, but people are too busy with their own events. I think there should be a comprehensive database of what groups are doing and at what time and then SGC should connect them. The last thing is to advocate for student groups. In the School of Comm, certain groups get access to the cage and similar B-status film groups do not have that access. How can we speak up for them? This is something I could see myself doing for the rest of college and I think I could do well. 
	•	Isaac: In your priorities you talk a lot about things that are either part of SARC or if you implemented them without the FVP would create inconsistencies. Can you speak how you’ll work with those people and also the entire exec board? 
	•	Kenny: I know I just explained a lot of my opinions, but I get that there are a lot of players. I would say I’m there to offer my opinion and speak up for students. In terms of working with other people, I think my past experiences show I can do that. 
	•	Bella: How would you describe your leadership style?
	•	Kenny: I’d say my strongest characteristic is I value the unique capabilities of all my team members. I want to meet with all the people in the team and bring the best out of them. A weakness with that is maybe getting a bit too caught up in that and not focusing on the committee as a whole, but I’m confident I can balance those things. 
	•	He is elected unanimously. 
	•	Sworn in. 
	•	Alex said some words. They were beautiful. 
	•	General Order: Rules Committee Elections
	•	Lauren: I nominate Will Rice. 
	•	Will: I respectfully decline. 
	•	Lauren: I nominate Jake Rothstein. 
	•	Serene: I nominate Melisa. 
	•	Melisa: I respectfully decline 
	•	Nehaarika: I nominate Ross, I respectfully decline. 
	•	Joji: I nominate Faheem. 
	•	Faheem: I respectfully decline. 
	•	Petros: I nominate myself. 
	•	Eric: I nominate Matt. 
	•	Matt: I accept. 
	•	Petros: I withdraw my nomination. 
	•	Jake: Hi, I’m Jake. I’m a freshman senator for District 4. I worked on the Student Engagement Stipend Committee and am currently on the Election Commission. If the Rules Committee does it’s job, it saves a lot of time in Senate. 
	•	Matt: Hi, I’m Matt. I’m a junior and I’m the off campus caucus whip. I am currently transitioning out of the responsibility in my fraternity where I work with our bylaws. I think that experience will help me in this role. 
	•	Johnny: How fast can you type? 
	•	Matt: Pretty fast. 100. 
	•	Jake: Less than that.
	•	Isaac: Motion to white ballot. 
	•	Passed unanimously. 
	•	Isaac: I nominate Kaley. 
	•	Kaley: Tentative yes. 
	•	Joji: I nominate Ariel. 
	•	Ariel: I accept. 
	•	Kaley: I withdraw. 
	•	Ariel: I really like ASG, so why not? 
	•	Motion to white ballot. 
	•	Unanimous. 
	•	General Order: Election Guidelines Review
	•	Dana will now present the revised election guidelines. these will be brought to vote next week.
	•	Dana: All of the major changes are in purple.  the things in blue are important things. the first thing is that we want to extend campaigning from one week to two. last year it was one, and we had a much lower turnout. this may be because of the shorter time period. another change we made was elimnating ground flyering. We increased sidewalk chalk to 100 sticks instead of 50. thats arbitrary. we also lowered the amount of masking tape.  we also changed the physical dates to match up with this year. It used to say that voting booths weren’t allowed at all. All senators and the exec must be present for at least one debate (that’s unchanged). we changed the languaage about the technology VP,  because we don’t have any. We also included a No Confidence option on the ballot. The election will be held on april 15th. All confirmed violations are posted to the ASG website, including the punishment. Last year we didn’t have any. If you have concerns, we’d love to hear them now. We’ve already heard that the 2-week time will conflict with other things.
	•	Julia: my concern with the 2 week campaign is that it is too much. The voter turnout had to do with competition and the timing of the election. Speaking from experience from Ani and Victors campaign, people don’t pay attention to the first period.
	•	Isaac: I also want to adress the length from a different perspective. It’s important from the student body that the only thing they see from us all year is a really heated campaign, which looks bad. Second, we don’t wnt to spend 2 weeks pushing this in everybodys face so that they are sick of ASG adn don’t pay attention to anything else we do. 
	•	JOhnathan: we have to think about the canidates too - two weeks is a long time
	•	Liz: Isaac and jonathan brought up good points. We need to not leave a bad taste in the students mouth. and we have to think of the candidates lives.
	•	Dana: so i hear a lot about shortening the campaign, but i am hesitent to shorten it to just one week. the voter turnout dropped off 50%. a lot of people didn’t know there was a campaign going on. how many days?
	•	Petros: i think ten days is good. I think the election shouldn’t end on a wednesday either. 
	•	Jamie: Coming from the perspective of someone who has run a campaign, the first two days of signature getting are technically part of the campaign. 
	•	Noah: to clarify, the way the election is written, candidates must gather 300 signatures to be eligible to run. That would take place from the 30th to april 1st, a wednesday.
	•	Kenny: If it’s ten days, then voting would happen on a friday or a saturday. I think people tend to shut their minds off on the weekend. I think 7 days is enough, assuming that competition is significant.
	•	Kevin: have you considered having the ballot open for longer as a solution to increase turnout?
	•	Dana: thats a posibility
	•	Isaac: is there a necesity to have a discreet petition period and a discrete campaign period, instead of having the petition be a deadline within the campaign.
	•	Dana: that’s a possibility.
	•	ground flying is a possiblity, but i think 800 sheets is a lot. i think we can bring that down to 500 sheets, and with the increase of chalk i think that’s fine. 
	•	Dana: in my experience, in the past two elections, every campaign used every sheet. it’s also in the guidelines that here are campaign materials we give the students, but there’s also a budget for the students to increase everything else. so they can buy more chalk. 
	•	Noah: any other comments thoughts concerns?
	•	Now who has the final decision on these suggestionss?
	•	Dana: we are going to meet and go over everything. Then you guys vote up or down, it only needs a majority to pass. to amend it needs 2/3rds. if you have an amendment you feel strongly about it would probably be easier to talk to us.
	•	Christina; maybe we could have a trial period for flyering? if we could even reduce to 700 or 600 or 500 as a trial period, see if the election was negatively affected. more creative alternatives could be substituted.
	•	moving on to new business ...
	•	New Business: SR1415-06: Resolution on Student Conduct Hearings
	•	Lauren: I thought we already had a special board for it. 
	•	Julia: They just took students off of those boards. The reason for that was because the White House suggested that students be taken off. 
	•	Chris: The White House said it created uncomfortable situations between students. On the reverse side of that, it also means you only have older adults on the board. There are culture changes over time, so it is super important to have students on the board. 
	•	Liz: The legislation does say that students could opt in or opt out of that. 
	•	New Business: SL1415-10: Undergraduate Discrimination and Harassment Act 2015
	•	Petros: You might be asking yourself why this is necessary. To be honest, I’ve always wondered why there is no amendment like this. I know that student groups are often required to put these kinds of things in their Constitution, so I’m surprised the student government does not have it. This version also has more groups protected than the university clause. 
	•	Who decided on these categories?
	•	Petros: I looked into legislation from all around the world and at other universities and I determined from those that there are some categories that Northwestern doesn’t cover. That’s fine, but we could have an internal policy that is more expansive. 
	•	Daniel: I still don’t understand how this will function beyond being codified. 
	•	Petros: I think you’re correct in some sense, because it does have symbolic value. I think it’s important for people who deal with us to know that we do not allow discrimination. Even if it was just that alone, I think it would be worthy. I excluded judicial function because I don’t think it’s ASG’s purview to institute reparative justice for discrimination, because the judicial board is not trained in that. It’s for student groups to know that is not allowed and for ASG members to know that also. 
	•	Lauren: It just means that when you’re on ASG business you can’t discriminate, but you don’t have to like everyone personally? 
	•	Petros: Yeah, clearly that’s not possible, because we’re humans. Privately held beliefs are private and you can hold those. I didn’t do this in response to anything from ASG, but bias incidents on campus. 
	•	Isaac: My concerns aren’t about adjudicating individual cases, but what if a student group we fund does something that is considered discriminatory? I think this would obligate us to defund them and I don’t think we have the judicial right to do that. 
	•	McKenzie: In the current guidelines, though we are doing review, there is not a certain thing that says that directly. It could be a misconduct that is reviewed annually. 
	•	Isaac: I don’t want this to be construed as a technical question, but the Constitution goes over the code and the financial guidelines. Is this the intent? Is there a way to change the constitutional amendment to clear that up? 
	•	Petros: It currently just covers ASG policies and it depends how the clause is interpreted. 
	•	Isaac: My second question is, considering the fact that the Constitution is currently four pages and this is over a page and a half, do you think this might make our Constitution more complicated and confusing? 
	•	Petros: It would make it longer, but I think it’s important to have this in there. 
	•	New Business: SL1415-11: Off-Campus Election Code Changes
	•	Noah: The idea here is that off-campus Senators in the past have been underrepresented. All the current slots have been filled by myself and the caucus whip, which doesn’t seem very democratic. The way it would work is off campus people need 25 signatures of people who live off campus and submit that to the Election Commission. The names would then be added to the ballot for off campus students. Through preferential voting, 8 people will be selected. 
	•	Lauren: Didn’t we already vote on something like this? 
	•	Noah: We discussed the idea, but not the actual code change. 
	•	Kenny: One concern that came up in caucus, is it required that you have to rank all of them? If you don’t know a majority of them, it could be arbitrary. 
	•	Noah: You can’t rank just some of them based on the Schulze method, but we are going to try to make students more knowledgeable about the people. It is not the place of the representative of the voter to decide, if they want to decide arbitrarily, that’s their personal vote. 
	•	Lauren: These Senators are elected the beginning of Spring Quarter. What if you are living on campus and then off campus? Can people run? 
	•	Noah: Yes, you are still able to run. 
	•	Roll Call and Adjournment
