


Northwestern University
Associated Student Government
Meeting of the Senate
November, 5, 2014

	•	Call to Order and Roll Call
	•	Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
	•	Executive Board Reports
	•	General Order: CourseDJ Presentation
	•	Christina: My committee has been working really hard to launch this for winter registration. The idea came about from the hackathon. 
	•	http://coursedj.asg.northwestern.edu
	•	This is soemthing we’ve been working on in Services for awhile. It is pretty similar to course seek. If you have a bunch of classes and don’t know which ones you want to take, it lets you visualize which schedule you want. 
	•	Christina: What you see on Caesar is what you see on the app. 
	•	You can put which courses are mandatory and it will keep it there for all potential schedules. 
	•	New Business: SR1415-01: Speak Out Against Religious Intolerance
	•	Jonathan: Some of you may know that there is a Chabad location off campus and the menorah has been vandalized three times in the last sixth months. Basically the registration is calling on ASG to speak out again these acts of religious intolerance. Any act against a religious group is unacceptable at this university. We are saying that we promote an open and inclusive environment and that we stand for respect. The last part is symbolic support for a new menorah within the next couple of weeks. We would like to move it to old business this week, so just keep that in mind. 
	•	Noah: We are in line for questions. 
	•	Lauren: Why do you feel the need to move this to old business? 
	•	Ariel: We want to be timely and not wait to condemn it. 
	•	Moira: Logistically, since Chabad is technically off campus, is it a problem that the language of the legislation talks about campus community? 
	•	Jonathan: We don’t link Chabad to Northwestern. 
	•	Austin: Have you reported this to RespectNU? 
	•	Jonathan: We have not. 
	•	Ariel: I motion to move this to old business. 
	•	Second.
	•	No objections. 
	•	Noah: All those in favor of moving to old business? It will be moved to the end of the agenda. 
	•	New Business: SL1415-05: A Not So Wild Idea: Closing Loopholes 
	•	Isaac: This is really small and hopefully uncontroversial. We passed the Wild Ideas Fund and said that everything under $150 did not have to be presented. This just says that the WIFC needs to present all approved grants. 
	•	New Business: SL1415-06: Mental Health Working Group
	•	Chris: I am coming to Senate today because the code asks that Senate approves working groups. This idea came out of a conversation with NU Listens and NU Active Minds. We really need to take a more holistic approach and look at the landscape of mental health on campus. It’s been a big focus, but the response has been patchwork. We’ve talked a lot about programs and stances and some of us feel we don’t know what is best, because we don’t know what the landscape really is. Everyone has different stances and stressors. It says 6-10 people, but we would also seek the thoughts of others through focus groups. 
	•	Chris: Motion to move to old business. 
	•	Noah: Seeing no objections we will vote on whether to move it to old business. That passes and we will bump that down to the end of the agenda. 
	•	Old Business: SL 1415-03 Bureaucracy Must Die
	•	Alex: Hi everyone. We’ve talked about this before, but to summarize this is getting rid of the ASG T-status designation and establishing that groups will go through CSI. Once they are established, groups would be funneled to various funding resources, one of which is ASG. We will be proposing an amendment about the CSI process. The most notable thing is that there is going to be a committee of three students and representatives from the different funding bodies. The representation will be the SGVP, the Director of New Student Groups, and someone from SARC. We thought it was important to have the different perspectives. You can look at the different documents attached in the legislation. The first is the CSI application for groups. The second is information about the various funding sources and grants on campus. 
	•	Ruba: Is the committee for CSI or ASG? 
	•	Ariel: CSI
	•	Noah: We will now move into debate. We are in line of a con, question or amendment. 
	•	Ariel: Motion to amend. 
	•	Alex: The amendment says that the SGVP, the Director of New Student Groups, and one person from SARC will sit on the committee. We also noticed that the Director of New Student Groups position wasn’t explicitly defined. We think it needs to be a permanent part of the SGC. It removes a section that is about the New Student Groups Committee that never really existed. 
	•	Previous Question. 
	•	Noah: We will now vote on this amendment. It passes unanimously. Now we are in line for a con on the bill. 
	•	Previous Question. 
	•	Noah: We will now vote. It passes unanimously. 
Old Business: SR1415-01: Speak Out Against Religious Intolerance
	•	Natalie: From an administrative standpoint, the only issue I see is the last line. Are we expecting Northwestern to put any monetary value to that? We as ASG and Northwestern don’t have any control over Chabad. I think that needs to be clarified. 
	•	Will: Does support always mean monetary support? 
	•	Noah: It is just ambiguous. natalie is saying we need to be clearer about it. 
	•	Isaac: But a resolution never allocated money. 
	•	Lauren: Have they already decided? Maybe we can say ASG supports Chabad’s decision?
	•	Chris: Motion to amend. For clarity, I move to just remove that last line. There is no reason someone can’t ask us to put money later. I don’t think that line adds something the other two lines don’t say already. 
	•	Isaac: I think that in terms of what it adds, it adds that we think it would be a good idea to replace the menorah. I want to reiterate that I don’t see the issue in agreeing with them, even if they’re suing us, whatever is going on. 
	•	Jake: I think we should omit it. 
	•	Ronak: I think by omitting this section, you get rid of a large part of the resolution. Though there is probably a better way to reword it. 
	•	Alec: I think that statement adds that we support them moving forward. The word support does not imply financial support. 
	•	Chris: We in this room know that is what we mean, but that doesn’t mean everyone else knows. But I agree. I withdraw my motion. I instead move to say that “Northwestern ASG supports Chabad placing a menorah in front of the Chabad House”. 
	•	Previous Question. 
	•	Noah: Passes unanimously. 
	•	We are now in discussion of the resolution as a whole. 
	•	PQ. 
	•	Noah: Passes unanimously. 
Old Business: SL1415-06: Mental Health Working Group
	•	Motion to amend, add that the members of the group are selected by the chairs. 
	•	Previous question. 
	•	Noah: We will now vote. Passes unanimously. Now we are discussing the legislation. 
	•	PQ
	•	Noah: We will now vote on the legislation. Passes unanimously. 
	•	Good of the Order & Announcements
	•	Roll Call and Adjournment
