


Northwestern University
Associated Student Government
Meeting of the Senate
October, 29, 2014

	•	Call to Order and Roll Call
	•	Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
	•	Executive Board Reports
	•	General Order: Assistant Dean of Students Tara Sullivan Presentation
	•	Tara: I could not be more excited to be with you today. I got my start in student government when I was an undergrad, so I thank you for all the hours you’ve put in. I came from Loyola in January and the Art Institute of Chicago before that. I did my undergrad at Indiana University and grad school at Michigan. We’ve been putting in a lot of work to change our conduct system and we have a new one right now. UHAS remains and is being reverted back to its original meaning. There is no longer SAHAS, all sexual assault hearings will go through UHAS as well. We want a process that students feel comfortable with and can understand. We are also looking for fairness, which doesn’t mean treating everyone the same, but that it is fair. We are looking for efficiency and timeliness, because we don’t want to drag out a conduct case over ten months. The new process has a focus on student rights and responsibilities, notifications, providing an individual experience and appropriate and consistent accountability. We find out about things from RAs, NUPD reports,  personal reports from faculty, staff and students, etc. In some cases there are interim actions, especially in title IX cases or something with more than one students involved. We might ask students to not contact each other, change class schedules, housing, etc. The process is really an opportunity to be heard and we have a few different options for that. Students have the opportunity to tell us their understanding of the events. Our standard of evidence has not changed, which is a preponderance of evidence standard. We are looking at what is more likely than not to have occurred. Northwestern has used this standard for a long time and are now mandated to use it for title IX cases, so we use it uniformly. We are not the legal system, I don’t have a JD, that is not the work that we do. We sit from an educational, developmental perspective. 
	•	Tara: We have two ways to be heard. The first is an administrative hearing, which is for situations that would not result in a separation from the university. If a separaton from the university is possible, students can choose if they want it heard administratively or if they want to have a panel hearing. Many people don’t want to have to justify themselves to five people and might prefer an administrative hearing. In cases with multiple community members, we automatically go to a panel hearing. 
	•	A hearing director receives information and might do an investigation, then present the student with the opportunity to be heard. We take into account students’ individual experiences, unlike a court. They will then find whether someone is responsible or not and then give sanctions. We have a basics program for anyone with an alcohol incidence, community service, etc. With an administrative hearing, students can request a review if they have not separated from the university. Students who have separated, can appeal. 
	•	For panel hearings, there will be an investigation that involves talking to witnesses, interviewing people involved,  etc. and making an official report. The report includes what they think happened, what they think didn’t happen, and where there is confusion. It is presented to students involved and the panel. Students meet with the panel separately from each other. The panel can ask questions of the investigator. 
	•	If someone is separated they can appeal. The criteria is: procedural error, new information, or case decision contrary to the evidence. 
	•	We want to have appropriate and consistent accountability, which means accountability fits the issue. Outcomes aren’t necessarily going to always be the same, but that it will be consistent. People learn and change their ways when the accountability fits their action. We don’t want people feeling like they are getting away with something or like they weren’t treated fairly. 
	•	Alex: What is the difference between exclusion and expulsion? 
	•	Tara: Exclusion means removal but that a reapplication would be considered. Expulsion means a permanent removal without ability to reapply. 
	•	Isaac: How has the student role changed? 
	•	Tara: Students serve on the panels for non title IX related concerns. We have also adjusted and upped our training. They will also be having quarterly training. We also look to a lot of feedback from students. Students have always served on our panels, but we want to use them more and increase their voice. 
	•	Kenny: The Responsible Action Protocol is a huge grey area. Could you clear up what “mitigated action” means? 
	•	Tara: The RAP is designed to ensure that someone who as a medical need can get that attention. Our first priority is getting students that medical attention if they need that. If you have been consuming alcohol or drugs and have a friend who needs medical attention, you call for help, stay with the student who needs help, and cooperate with the student and with questions after, then you are eligible. You will receive your letter and come chat with us, if you follow those, then you will not have disciplinary sanctions. You might have educational sanctions but not disciplinary. The same policy applies to sexual assaults. I think our students are highly skeptical of this policy. I don’t have control over our police system or EPD, NUPD is normally pretty aware and don’t cite students. But if the policy decide to cite someone for having a large amount of marijuana, that’s not connected to us. 
	•	Ronak: How would the hearing system look for student groups and greek life? 
	•	Tara: The process doesn’t change. 
	•	Daniel: I know students have been called in to discuss incidents where someone was at a greek house, then left, then was hospitalized. 
	•	Tara: Students that have provided alcohol need to be held accountable for providing that to minors. Our campus has a huge rumor mill. Normally a student group is held accountable if they are the main source of alcohol. We do a lot of investigating, we don’t just assume that an organization was primarily responsible. 
	•	Isaac: You say that with individuals and groups they are eligible for the protocol. What does that mean? 
	•	Tara: It applies every time if all steps are followed. But if you lie about something, then it is not necessarily applied. 
	•	General Order: Chief of Staff Confirmation: Andrew Green
	•	Rafael: If you could pull up the candidate info sheet. We have everyone from the selection committee up here and we are really excited to present Andrew to you all. He has a lot of experience reaching out to students at the beginning of their careers and later on. He has also been on an ASG committee since his freshman year. 
	•	Andrew: I think Rafael spoke well of me. I am interested in creating a stronger community within ASG and to improve the experience for members. I love ASG and it has been my longest commitment. And my initials are ASG! 
	•	Isaac: What do you think is the role of social events in ASG? 
	•	Andrew: That’s a good question. I think that there is some value in ASG events, but I don’t necessarily want to provide superfluous events to get people to hang out. In general, hopefully ASG is a place where people can form individual connections. I think through the existing connections is where people feel the most committed, so its most important to look there. 
	•	He is approved unanimously.
	•	General Order: Student Activities Finance Committee Confirmations
	•	Mckenzie: All Senators need to be on a committee and this is a great way to get involved. We work with all the A Status groups and meet Tuesday t 9. You need to be able to dedicate your time to this and give student groups your time. 
	•	Noah: We wll now open the floor for nominations. 
	•	Mckenzie: I would like to nominate Eric. 
	•	Eric: I accept. 
	•	Mcknezie: Sean Early. 
	•	Grace: I nominate Josh. 
	•	Josh: I do not accept. 
	•	Isaac: I nominate Jake. 
	•	Jake: I accept. 
	•	Serene: I nominate Naveen
	•	Naveen: I accept. 
	•	Daniel: I nominate myself. 
	•	Second. 
	•	Eric: I’m a sophomore representing district 1. I’m interested in SAFC, because I’m interested in Econ, finance and student groups. 
	•	Sean: This is going to be my third year and the board is really young, so I want to be able to pass down institutional information
	•	Jake: I’m a theater major and I am representing District 4. I am really active in student organizations and am beginning to understand how funding works. I think some groups get too much funding and I think I could fix that. 
	•	Naveen: I am a student group senator and I think that by getting involved in this, I want to increase co-spons and help student groups. 
	•	Daniel: I’m a sophomore and I would like to participate in this committee. I want to ensure that all groups have proper access for groups. 
	•	Ronak: What experience do you bring to the role?
	•	Sean: I have had the opportunity to advise many groups, so I think I serve the board well in that way. I have also served in the Wildcat Welcome Board of Directors and am part of A&O. 
	•	Jake: I recently joined Erik’s board to give out need based stipends to students and I am the only freshman on that committee. I’m here to learn and I think I can bring a fresh, traditionally dopey eyed outlook. 
	•	Naveen: I have had the opportunity to advocate for students through SASA. On the other side I can see how the funding system works and I am the kind of kid that likes to go to different events.
	•	Daniel: I’m a Counselor for FUP, I’m on the executive board of my fraternity, I do research, etc. I think I have a unique perspective that I could bring to this. I think being on this committee will give me the opportunity to enforce fairness. 
	•	Eric: I have experience from high school and I was selected by McKenzie already.
	•	Serene: What has been your favorite event on campus this quarter? 
	•	Jake: Wildcat Welcome as an entire program.
	•	Naveen: I think my favorite thing was the premiere of Rosewater. I liked seeing how two groups could work together to highlight an issue. 
	•	Daniel: I had a great time at Festivale. It was super fun and it was also a unique and enjoyable highlight of a culture. 
	•	Eric: I loved the College Feminists’ speaker. 
	•	Isaac: Do you see any issues with the funding process as it is? 
	•	Naveen: I think there are issues with all systems, but I think that the best way is to change the system slightly and not to quickly overhaul anything. Slow change is the best change. 
	•	Daniel: I’m not familiar enough to provide a real answer. 
	•	Eric: I don’t think I’m in the position to make a statement. 
	•	Jake: I don’t know about anything specifically. I just know that with the Stuco boards, many boards are choosing not to be A-status because they can make more money that way. I think that reveals a hole, because being A-status should be a goal. 
	•	Noah: The way this works now is we’re electing the non-senator seats. Anyone who has never been a senator is eligible to be nominated - they have to be in the room if they haven’t prepared a statement. 
	•	McKenzie: I nominate Justin, Jason, and David. 
	•	Noah: Are there any other nominations? Seeing none, we’re going to go into the question and answer period. 
	•	Justin: I joined SAFC in the spring, I’ve been through spring funding, I’m the only member who has a serious theater experience on the board, I think it’s really cool to help groups in spring funding and now I get to see the other side of it.
	•	Jason: I’ve been on the board for almost three years now, I’m the senior-most member of SAFC, I hope to continue working on the SAFC. 
	•	David: I’m a freshman, and I’d like to be on the SAFC because I believe that organizations are the cornerstone to the culture here and I’d like to participate in the financial aspect of helping run organizations and affect the culture here. 
	•	Motion to white ballot - no objections
	•	Motion passes
	•	Noah: Congratulations, you guys are confirmed. 
	•	Noah: Now we’re going to talk about PR for the environmental day of service. You’re about to get an email from me that we will ask you to share on your social media platforms. 
	•	General Order: PR for Environmental Day of Service
	•	Signups are open now and we are starting our PR. We are anticipating 100 people and have purchased materials for 100 people. Open up your email and look at the links. I put in a blurb also that you could post as a status or send over a listserv. Click on the facebook event and share it and write something about how great the Sustainability Committee it is. As members of ASG it would be great if you could sign up as well. It’s Saturday the 15th from 9am-12pm. If you are a residential senator, definitely send that over your listserv. It counts as green cup points! I also included the flyer in that email, so please include that as well. Sign up is live until November 1st. 
	•	The winners of the SAFC election are Eric, Sean and Daniel. 
	•	General Order: Wild Ideas Fund Request Slate
	•	$300 to APAC and Kaibigan for an event with an Asian, female rapper. The organization has gotten sources from elsewhere and only need $300 for the flight. The proposal was solid and look out for that event! 
	•	New Business: SL 1415-03 Bureaucracy Must Die
	•	Ariel: I am the Director for New Student Groups. The legislation is everything we presented last week - getting rid of T status and integrating the system with CSI. We are getting rid of all T-status mentions in the code and requiring groups to be CSI recognized for one quarter before applying for ASG recognition.
	•	ISaac: What is the role of students in the CSI recognition process?
	•	Ariel: The idea is that it will be a committee on which students will be involved, but it is not set yet. 
	•	Isaac: Can you bring that to senate when you do that? 
	•	Ariel: Yeah. 
	•	Old Business: SL 1415-04  Wild Ideas NAISA 150th Anniversary Commemoration of Sand Creek Massacre
	•	Erik: As Serene mentioned before, anything above $500 we have to bring to Senate. The Wild Ideas Committee thinks that this is a great use of the fund. November is Native American Heritage month and they want to put on an event for the 150th Anniversary of the Sand Creek Massacre. The event involves a speaker, a drum group and mocassin making. They have secured $500 from SESP and are asking ASG for $750. 
	•	Serene: This is new to Northwestern and this is the first time that Native American Heritage month is being celebrated on Northwestern’s campus to our knowledge. At the time being, NAISA does not have SAF funds. And SESP has put their whole weight behind this event. 
	•	Erik: NAISA has been recognized by the administration as the best new student group 2 years ago. 
	•	Daniel: Is this the first time that the administration has acknowledged the massacre?
	•	Serene: It’s not the first time it has been acknowledged, but NAISA has definitely started a dialogue recently. 
	•	Jonathan: How many members do they have? 
	•	Serene: I am not sure.
	•	Alex: Can you break down the costs of the drum group? 
	•	Erik: That’s an honorarium. 
	•	Alec: Is this how much money they asked for? 
	•	Serene: Yes. 
	•	Noah: We will now move into debate. 
	•	Isaac: Previous question? 
	•	Noah: Seeing no objections, we will move into a vote. 
	•	It passes unanimously. 
	•	Good of the Order & Announcements
	•	Roll Call and Adjournment
