


Northwestern University
Associated Student Government
Meeting of the Senate
November, 12, 2014

	•	Call to Order and Roll Call
	•	Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
	•	Executive Board Reports
	•	General Order: Wildcat Connection
	•	Isaac: Wildcat Connection is terrible. I don’t like it. Productive thoughts! The layout is not intuitive and it’s really hard to organize the groups you are in or have access to. The forms through it are simpler than qualtrics, so it’s not really useful. You can’t customize your page. 
	•	Moira: The mobile version doesn’t really work, because there is no way to log in. The feature where people post their events, that bulletin board seems to have the same outdated things. I don’t know if that’s because people don’t post or because it’s not updated. 
	•	Robert: A lot of the information does not seem to be up to date. 
	•	Nehaarika: I feel like it would be a good tool for freshmen, but most of my friends don’t know what it is. When I did try to use it, I wanted to search broadly and it doesn’t come up with a good list. 
	•	Erik: The search engine could certainly be improved. In terms of accessing finances it is pretty helpful. All treasurers with their SOFO accounts, they have their audit trail. We used to have to use a paper trail, but now there is an online audit trail. For applications it tends to be pretty easy, too. 
	•	Grace: Are all groups on wildcat connection? 
	•	Serene: Yes. 
	•	Grace: In that case I think it could be a very good tool, because everyone is on it, but that last event posted was a long time ago. 
	•	Jonathan: Wildcat Connection is not connected to any social media site. Lots of student groups use social media so the lack of connection is a struggle. 
	•	-: You can set up direct links, so that’s the most useful part of it. But that is all I would use it for. 
	•	Kenny: That’s true, but you need to go to each individual page. I would like if a group creates a facebook event it automatically connects to a calendar. I think facebook is the go to for facebook events, right now. 
	•	Kevin: I think there could be an integration with PlanIt Purple and other sites as well. 
	•	Serene: Someone who has not tried to find contact info before, can you try right now? 
	•	Grace: It was easy to try to find it, but some groups don’t have their info posted. 
	•	Matt: I think it should be obvious how to get recommendations for student groups. 
	•	Serene: I’ve gathered that integration is key and then centralizing and personalizing. A mobile version is important, for sure. As well as making it more user friendly in general. Someone mentioned that freshmen don’t really know about it, so maybe making sure this is pred to freshmen. Do we think people don’t update because it is hard or because nobody uses it? 
	•	Nehaarika: I think it’s a chicken and the egg thing. 
	•	Korri: I thing for the future is to use Wildcat Connection from the start at the Activities Fair. 
	•	Serene: Ideally it could be really useful. Especially when we need to mass message groups, it can be done easily through Wildcat Connection. The SOFO trail was also a useful addition. 
	•	Moira: Wildcat Connection is connected to CSI, SOFO and group advisors. In my experience, what happens is it doesn’t broadcast it to many students. If you’re a small student group putting on an event with short notice, it can cause issues, because then all your advisors want to contact you and it slows everything down via bureaucracy. If you’re a group with limited resources, it can create more work to put it on Wildcat Connection. 
	•	General Order: Student Engagement Stipend
	•	Erik: First I want to talk about how this program came to be. Starting back with last year’s exec board, Ani, Alex, Sofia started discussing how we value student group experience outside the classroom. Questbridge brought up their money matters week and made the conversation more open. Going into our budgeting process last spring, we proposed the Student Leadership Stipend Program. You all approved that, thank you so much. Over the summer, our exec board starting working on that and coordinated with CSI and the Financial Aid Office. Then we created the committee and brought in other student groups - it’s a very diverse group. We have 20 stipends of $500 each. It is meant to help student feel less of a financial stress when committing time to student groups. Anyone who is involved in a student organization is eligible to apply. We are also asking students how the stipend will affect their experience and why their experience will improve their time at Northwestern. There are three essay questions that we look at. We are going to review them by looking at them need-blind. We create a ranked list of who deserves the stipend and then CSI gets their financial aid scores. CSI goes through the list and compiles the information to award the stipends. The recipients find out through CSI and are then given the paperwork to get the money from payroll through work. For most students this should not affect your financial packages. You do not need to be a president or have a particular role. You need to be an undergraduate student. Only the awardees and CSI will know the results. There will be no preferrence to certain groups. The money can be spent on anything and you can pply if you do not have financial aid. 
	•	Vicky: Have you thought about the good neighbor great university scholarships. It takes away work study. Will it affect that? 
	•	Erik: If you have over $6,000 personal income, that when it affects your scholarship. If you’re not working that much, it shouldn’t affect the scholarship. 
	•	General Order: B-Status Funding Primer
	•	Alex: The mission of funding is to foster growth and excellence in the student experience and enriching the campus community. We allowed late applications just to be friendly and then this Saturday we had deliberations. We got 60 applications, we looked at them line by line, and decided whether to fund it or not. We only get about $35,000 a year and have to break that up. We are recommending around $17,000 for this quarter, which needs to be approved by Senate. There might be groups that come to ask for things that are against the guidelines. You can fund whatever you want, but the SGC operates under rules. We promote sustainability (operationally, environmentally, etc), safety, financial independence, successful/recurrent events and cosponsorships. We have standardized amounts which are the maximum amounts we can fund per group. These are determined through precedence. We cannot fund things that are not important for the event, we try to fund things that are essential to the event. Membership fees and transportation to events, we can’t fund, because we can’t fund that for all groups. Next week we will have funding as old business. Look over the funding packet and reach out if anything seems weird. We will go through a random order next week. Our first pass will be a cut round, then an add round, and we’ll keep going until we break even. We have approximately $800 to use for amendments, but there is no need to hit zero, because it will roll over for next week. 
	•	New Business: B-Status Funding Recommendations
	•	Alex: The first column is how much they asked and recommendations what the committee says and the last column is what Senate approves.
	•	Nehaarika: Should we look this all over and make our own recommendations?
	•	Noah:  You could look them over and come with your own recommendations, because that’s the purview of the Senate. But normally the groups will come in if they think they deserve more and we vote on that. You are welcome to try to make an addition if your intuition says you should, but I would suggest talking to me or Alex first. 
	•	New Business: SR1415-02: Support for Increased Northwestern Response to Ebola Crisis
	•	Kenny: They are going to give their presenation, but I’ll introduce them since they haven’t been at senate before. They come the GES and GlobeMed. They think this resolution is important since we have one of the biggest medical schools in the country. 
	•	Michael: This bill came from how universities have remained silent about ebola. In the past universities have has an important voice on health crises. I don’t know if you are familiar with Partners in Health, but they are trying to kick this off at a few universities across this country and Northwestern would be a great place to do this. 
	•	Joey: There is an emphasis on global partnerships in the Northwestern Strategic Plan . So many groups on campus discuss these sorts of issues and are looking for active involvement. This makes sense and there should not be opposition. 
	•	Siddarth: We ask that the university steps up and that personnel who want to go help don’t take a financial hit. We also want their safety prioritized. We want patients in Chicago don’t suffer when their practitioners go abroad. 
	•	Michael: Today was the day we crossed the 5,000 mark for deaths and there is a need for medical professionals. 
	•	Danny: Where do we suggest the monetary expenses come from? 
	•	Michael: It would be continuing benefits, not asking people get more money. That is where working within the departments is important. 
	•	Danny: If they are going on paid leaved, then wouldn’t there need to be people to replace them? 
	•	Michael: That’s why the last point is to work first within the department to fill holes without hiring new people. We aren’t talking about that many people, but I think Northwestern should encourage people - it’ll make a strong statement. 
	•	Moira: Are there Northwestern people there right now? Will this affect them? 
	•	Michael: We actually don’t know. The general vibe we’ve gotten from Feinberg is they are discouraging people to go. We don’t think there are people there right now and this is mainly to encourage people on the fence. 
	•	General Order: Student Group Spotlight: Northwestern Quest Scholars 
	•	Amanda: Hi, I’m Amanda Walsh and I’m the president of Northwestern’s Quest Scholars. We are the largest low income and first generation students advocacy groups in the US. We want to create a supportive community for students on campus and advocate for low income and first generation students on campus. We are trying to become more inclusive. 14% of NU students are low income and 25% of those students are first generation. It is important for us to advocate those students and support other students who care about socio-economic status. We want to make sure that our students are engaged in the NU community and eliminate financial and social barriers. Allies are very important to us, because we do not want to be an exclusive group on campus. We started in the fall of 2010 and we only had about 10 members. Then we had 5 meetings, 3 events, and 16 members. The next year we had about 120 members and became T-Status events. In 2013 we put on Money Matters week and had our first successful exec board transition. Because we are a subset of a national organization we do have a liaison. We also have many committees to get out younger members involved. It is very important for our group to fundraise, since it would be unfair to ask for our members to pay dues. Right now, we have approximately 300 members and about 25 of those consider themselves allies. Last year was when the bulk of our programming started. One of our major activities was out QuestGiving dinner. Many students cannot go home for Thanksgiving break. Last year we had over 130 students and 70+ of those students were not members of Questi. We had Money Matters Week. In the Spring we had our first Senior Farewell dinner. This year we want to have many more events. We had our first general meeting with approximately 47 people in attendance. We have also started a new advocacy committee. Right now we are in a week of stranger dinners where members can have dinner at the apartment of an exec member or an older member. We are also having Thanksgiving 3.0 and expect about 150 people. Our first general meeting is an open event, as is QuestGiving, all career events, our panels and speakers, the advocacy committee firesides, stranger dinners, and fundraisers. The bulk of what our advocacy committee does is working with administrators and other student leaders to make sure we have a campus that is accessible to low income students. Quest has reserved a spot in all leadership trainings on how to make campus more accessible. We are also working on programs that help students pay for theater and greek life. We also have our own peer mentoring program. In the future, we are trying to rebrand with a new name and we want to include more people. Students don’t like to call themselves Quest Scholars if they haven’t received a scholarship from them. We are also trying to do more service in the community. We are also trying to make sure that the advocacy committee is going to be successful. 
	•	Julia: I just want to say I am incredibly impressed and I want to reiterate how great QuestGiving is. Reach out to anyone on the ASG exec board to be part of things that overlap with Quest. 
	•	Moira: Do you do anything for students who don’t have anywhere to stay over breaks? 
	•	Amanda: We generally have older members open their homes internally, but we are trying to work with the Office of Student Enrichment Services to create something larger. 
	•	New Business: SL1415-06: ASG Feedback Working Group
	•	Jaimie: We’ve realized that ASG has a lot of things going on at once, which makes it nearly impossible for us to market everything at once. Some things get a lot of play and others don’t. Student Life and all our committees need a better mechanism to find out what students want. We want to create a working group to figure out how to market our initiatives and to find out what students want. 
	•	Kenny: Where is the necessity for the working group separate from your committees? 
	•	Chris: I think working groups are very effective to institutionalize progress and set aside people to create tangible results. There is a lot going on in the committees, so it can be hard to set aside one thing as a priority.
	•	Jaimie: Chris and I both have leadership styles and certain ways of doing things and the working group allows us to solicit other points of view. 
	•	Chris: Motion to move to old business. 
	•	Isaac: I object. You haven’t given us any compelling reason to move to old business. 
	•	Chris: I’d like to get the group together and there is only so much time in the quarter. And we need to get the bulk of the work done before winter break because of commitments in early January. 
	•	Isaac: My con is that I don’t see how this is critical, since we can get people together to meet informally before this. 
	•	Jaimie: Winter break is a great time for research and we want the committee to be able to hit the ground running. And we really want to do it after getting approval. 
	•	Noah: We will now vote on whether to move this to old business. 
	•	Division. 
	•	13-13-1. In the case of a tie, the motion does not pass. 
	•	New Business:  SL1415-06: Code Changes: I’ll Show You Code Changes 
	•	Alex: Kind of like the t-status stuff we talked about earlier, the SGC guidelines are pretty bad. We did a similar thing with the code last year. There is a lot in the SGC guidelines that has been neglected. The SGC guidelines do not match up with the code and the ASG code take precedence. We’ve changed the formatting, titles that don’t add up, removed student senator selection, removed the title of our advisor, made it so directors need to be approved, and we changed the gendered pronouns. We changed the benefits of groups, removed old resource mentions and added a section about the ASG camera. And then we added a condition that all SAF funded events must specify that they are funded through the SAF, by ASG to increase transparency of where money is going. We also removed all mention of P-status groups which is a relic of the past. It is a status for groups who pop up to support a political candidate and then would dissolve. We thought the CSi recognition process would work well for that group. It has not been used for at least 5 years. 
	•	Alex: I motion to move this to old business. I’m going to be gone next week. I’ve found out I have an interview and need to fly to Phoenix. I trust my GEs for funding, but I would like to be here for this discussion. If it gets put off another week, it will be during sup-funding. 
	•	Second
	•	It passes and we are now moving to old business. 
	•	PQ
	•	Second
	•	Noah: We will now vote on these changes. It passes unanimously. 
	•	Old Business: SL1415-05: A Not So Wild Idea: Closing Loopholes 
	•	Isaac: This just makes it so that any grants under $150 must also be presented before Senate. Right now the Wild Ideas Committee, 0-$150 do not need to be presented to Senate, $150-$500 must be presented, and $500 must be approved by Senate. 
	•	PQ
	•	Noah: We will now vote. It passes unanimously. 
	•	Good of the Order & Announcements
	•	Roll Call and Adjournment
