ASG Senate Minutes
01-09-13

	•	Executive Board Reports
	•	Alex: No longer using the term dorm- try to remove it from your vocabulary
	•	Ethan: HEY EVERYBODY! Worked on various projects over break, including Campus Voice. Website is coming along well, should be launched next week.
	•	Mark: On Sunday at 2pm, we'll have a lot of fun with stickers- applying them to shower heads and CFLs. Please invite all your friends to the event on facebook. Also, if you're interested in helping out on Sunday, it'll count for your PR requirement and it'd be much appreciated.
	•	Caucus Whip Reports
	•	Lauren: Talking about things to do for a caucus project- cross walk near Jones, putting up better descriptions of residence halls , and bike paths/lanes
	•	Ian: Stuff last quarter that got finished:
	•	Motoki and Nouha were working on a parking map that Tony Kirchmeier has largely taken over.
	•	Also, Mike is working on getting it so that Norris TVs flash when shuttles are about to leave.
	•	Also throwing support behind garage sale services is taking up.
	•	Paul: Working to revamp R25- the program online that most student groups use to reserve rooms online
	•	Sarah: PHA and IFC are currently doing recruitment, which has been a large focus this week. Lots of changes going on, including transitions to new IFC and PHA senators. Also want to work with exit surveys; and freshman freeze legislation.
	•	General Order: CampusVoice Launch
	•	Brad: CampusVoice has been a long time coming, but we're live. Check it out! You can log in with your netID- students can report problems or suggestions. There's some content there- you can also add polls to suggestions. Hoping to minimize spamming by requiring people to post comment if they give a submission a "thumbs down."
	•	Ian: Why is Wildcat Connection not on the top bar
	•	Brad: Technically not our service, it's a CSI service
	•	Ethan: We'll be integrating data from wildcat connection going forward
	•	Becca: We'll be placing ourselves around campus with the "speech bubble" board and asking people how we can improve campus. We'll then take pictures and upload their suggestions. Please sign up for some times.
	•	Ani: PR requirement is really a requirement this quarter! We'll be more closely regulating this this quarter.
	•	General Order: Residential Conditions Working Group Update
	•	Harrison: We're a group that has been looking at the various residential colleges/halls and working with Paul Riehl to improve living conditions- we've toured two residential colleges, plans to tour more, and before we go in we ask residents to submit suggestions for improvement. We look out for those things, report them to Paul, and really improvements are happening.
	•	Chris: The process of doing this is three-fold- send out a survey, compile the results and looking at those suggestions when touring the dorm. We did Elder first- Paul is very gung-ho. We had 85 people respond to the survey, figured out 5-6 things to be done in short term and 5-6 things for long term. Paul reported back to us and told us most of the improvements would be done. Fixed multiple shower stalls, turned a bike storage area into a study room
	•	Morgan: Started a shower curtain revolution in Kemper, getting study nooks- long term, we're going to put curtains
	•	Ian: Hinman and Jones now have overhead lighting thanks to Paul, among many other improvements.
	•	Good of the Order and Announcements
	•	Senator: Mega-Shabbat!
	•	David: DM trivia tonight- Senate ended early, so go!
	•	On Sunday, Coach Carmody is going to donate $2000 to whatever DM team brings the most members

Senate Adjourned
