


Northwestern University
Associated Student Government
Meeting of the Senate
October, 22, 2014

	•	Call to Order and Roll Call
	•	Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
	•	Executive Board Reports
	•	General Order: Student Group Spotlight-Northwestern Community Development Corps
	•	Taylor: Thank you so much for having me. NCDC is a student organization that strives to build community between NU, Evanston and CHicago. We manage a lot of volunteer sites, hold speakers, and put on special events. We used to have advocacy that came out of the Living Wage Campaign, which was a success. Since then advocacy was in flux, so we saw that NCDC didn’t focus enough on Northwestern. Now we have an outreach program, which aims to increase collaboration on campus. One problem NU has is overprogramming and we have started addressing that within the social justice groups on campus to get them talking to each other. We want to reduce programming, but increase effectiveness. We are really focusing on getting student leaders on campus to collaborate. NCDC is very excited to partner with anyone, so please reach out to us if you have any ideas or questions. 
	•	Sam: What are you most excited for this year? 
	•	Taylor: I am most excited for - we had our kick-off, which was exciting. I’m excited for student leaders to get into the same room. It doesn’t have to be a formal email process. And I’m also excited to see engagement to become more important on campus. 
	•	Moira: What are you doing with the Social Justice groups? 
	•	Taylor: We compiled a list of those leaders and emailed all of them to ask them to hang out with them. We chose them first, because we have the most connections there. 
	•	Bella: What are some upcoming events? 
	•	Taylor: We just reviewed our feedback and it looked like people want a calendar and a facebook group to talk about things. We need to look at what is most effective. My vision is kind of a matchmaking process to get people to collaborate on similar ideas from different angles. 
	•	Sam: What do you recommend we do to help? 
	•	Taylor: Yeah, not be afraid to reflect on overprogramming and to talk about it. What NCDC does does not necessarily define how successful we are, we also have to look at the intangible. 
	•	Isaac: Do you think our funding process contributes to overprogramming? 
	•	Taylor: Yeah it really does. We were having trouble finding a speaker and didn’t want to put on a bad one, but we were worried about getting a financial misconduct. 
	•	General Order:  ASG Recognition for Student Groups
	•	Alex: We’ve been talking about on SGC about how confusing the recognition process is. In previous years, CSI used to be underdeveloped and understaffed, but they have built up and can now do more. ASG created the recognition process because the administration was not doing it. But now CSI has the resources and structure to help. The current state is people might talk to Julia, or CSI, or eventually me and maybe Ariel - the definition of bureaucracy. First they would apply to T status and then eventually B status, which is where the money is. The issues are: bureaucracy, there is no single process for getting recognition, communication with CSI and ASG at the same time about the same thing, and ASG is not equipped to determine the ability of groups to exist on campus (legality, risk management, etc.)
	•	Ariel: The only difference between CSI and ASG right now is that we provide funding. 
	•	Basically what we have done is combine our recognition process with CSI. First students would talk to CSI and they would be recognized, and if they needed funding, then they would come to ASG. 
	•	Alex: Based on their funding needs, they might be sent to a department instead of ASG if it makes more sense. 
	•	Ariel: Current T status will not be affected by this change, it will change for currently unrecognized groups. 
	•	Alex: For CSI recognition, groups do not need to put on programming before they can be recognized. Someone with a great idea can get their group set up with CSI and then move on. They will have the ability to book rooms, have an advisor, etc. but would not have to meet with their GE and what not. We are still going to have students involved in the process, though. 
	•	Isaac: Are there groups that are recognized other than ASG and CSI? 
	•	Alex: Yes
	•	Isaac: Do we want all groups to go through CSI? 
	•	Natalie: Up until two years ago, we didn’t even have a process of registering all student groups. We are working closely at CSI with other departments to facilitate the process. We are having that conversation, but it might take longer with some offices. 
	•	Isaac: How does the approval process for changing this work? 
	•	Alex: Right now what we approved as a committee is our practice, but we will have to have it approved by Senate to be a code change. 
	•	Alex: Functionally, you said t status groups are grandfathered in. How long will that last? 
	•	Ariel: T-status only lasts one year. 
	•	Alex: What will be different for those groups than for CSI groups? 
	•	Alex: They will have a GE, but nothing else.
	•	Chris: If someone asks me how to start a student group, who do I refer them to now? 
	•	Natalie: We have a handy dandy form! It’s an initial questionnaire. We want to cut down on overlap and streamline the process, because we don’t want seventeen groups with two members.  
	•	Ariel: ASG will still be involved. 
	•	Alex: So the initial link will be that form, which we will have on the ASG website. 
	•	General Order: PR for Wild Ideas 
	•	Noah: I want everyone to come get a few flyers and put them around. Don’t break any NU rules, that would be TOO WILD *pause for laughter*. There is also a cover photo that will be circulated, so please change your picture. 
	•	Good of the Order & Announcements
	•	Roll Call and Adjournment
