


Northwestern University
Associated Student Government
Meeting of the Senate
October, 15, 2014

	•	Call to Order and Roll Call
	•	Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
	•	Executive Board Reports
	•	General Order:  Housing Master Plan Presentation
	•	JPK: We’re going to walk you through how this came to be and show you the plans and how we are going to pay for the plan. Then we’ll take any questions. We are part of the division of Student Affairs. Our vision is to be full partners of the student experience and our mission is to enrich that experience. When we started this process, we identified six strategic goals. We knew we needed to focus on Undergraduate Housing, because students were concerned. We want to equalize the on campus experience through renovation and new construction. We heard that refreshing things all the time is not effective. The third goal is to reposition housing offerings to meet the market. We also want to increase the number of people living on campus. Our fifth goal is to make a phasing strategy and our sixth is to maintain consistency with Northwestern’s other long term plans. 
	•	Paul: We did a lot of market research using an outside firm, which brought an extra expertise that we found beneficial. They looked at off campus pricing, we did student surveys, peer institution research, determined demand, etc. We simultaneously did architectural analysis and budget analysis. We also did a series of focus groups. We learned that students’ first year experience is defined by housing, pricing is inconsistent, and we need to have upperclassmen housing available to students. Proximity was important people, apartment style housing was also very important. 
	•	JPK: We heard through ASG and UBC that if you just built apartments, we would stay on campus. We are not going to make everyone live on campus all four years and that not everyone can or wants to, especially because of internships and five year programs. We know that some landlords are doing a good job and others aren’t, so we don’t just want to gut that market. 
	•	Paul: Our capacity today is 3993 beds, we will demolish some beds, lose a few, and gain more through renovation and new construction, ending up at 4252 beds. Some sites are what used to be Peanut Row, MAB, Bobb-McCulloch will be demolished, and so would Sargent. The Fairchilds is considered academic space, but that has not been settled yet. Some buildings get reduced (286 beds) but they will be modernized to meet student needs. 
	•	Chris: What would that create?
	•	Paul: More space. If we took some beds out, then we can have more lounge space and open space. We still need to have enough revenue beds to keep the model working. 
	•	JPK: The numbers you don’t see here are new constructions, which generally leads renovation. This will give us more swing space. We have been trying to compress renovation into two or few months, but that doesn’t really work and it costs more money. So we will be constructing before renovating. 
	•	Paul: The renovations will not just be cosmetic, but also mechanical, like air conditioning. It would be a new building essentially from the inside out. It’s a big plan with lots of moving parts to it. 
	•	JPK: For the ones we are not renovating we don’t mean that we won’t fix anything and just let them sit for ten years, but they won’t have huge maintenance. 
	•	JPK: We tested a lot of different room styles through surveys and found that students felt that first year students need to live with a roommate. Generally, you’ve got a shared bathroom with two rooms that are double-occupancies as the top rated room style. For sophomores/juniors we got an individual room with a shared restroom and a little shared space that they are clustered around. We want to people to stay connected and not just shut out everything else. Conceptually these are the ideas we would use to develop our floor plans. 
	•	Paul: People really want restroom access in the rooms themselves, so we hear that loud and clear. 
	•	Paul: Construction will begin in 2014 on Lincoln, which should open in 2016. Each year progresses as we go through and the table shows what our room capacity will be each year. We need to build the new buildings first to absorb the reductions in the renovations. 
	•	JPK: Showed visual. 
	•	JPK: Why don’t we just tear Foster-Walker down? The zoning has changed, if we tear it down, we can’t build a residential building there. So we need to keep the skin. 
	•	JPK: More visuals. 
	•	Paul: How are we gonna pay for this? We have a bake sale starting tomorrow, brownies are $9,000 a piece. Residential Services doesn’t receive money from the University, but we can borrow it through them and pay it over time from rent from students. We just settled a $27 mil debt 10 days ago, but now we are going to be in debt again. Dining is not part of this, but we can talk about this later.
	•	Paul: $546 mil is what we are estimating the cost will be. Smaller maintenance would come out of a separate budget. The President is suggesting he can raise ~$50 mil to contribute to this. The funding approach is much like a mortgage and financially we will be able to do this. 
	•	Lauren: Have you considered adding more Res Colleges? 
	•	JPK: This is a facilities plan, so the programmatic changes are separate and would happen later. 
	•	Paul: Every building we are building we are mindful of what it would look like as either a hall, college or community. 
	•	JPK: They should have more flexible plans that would make programmatic changes easier. 
	•	Ronak: With respect to res colleges, how would closing it down affect their membership?
	•	JPK: Ideally we would take those people and move them collectively so they can stay together, because the Residential Colleges aren’t all about the building. 
	•	Nicholas: What’s happening to SAE? 
	•	JPK: That was a problem with the visual, nothing is happening to SAE. 
	•	Bella: Thoughts on dining halls? 
	•	JPK: There are going to be some pinch points with dining, like when Hinman gets dark. Hopefully the way construction on campus is going, there should be new dining options when that happens, like the new student center. Similarly, when Sargent is down, there should be something in the Bobb space. 
	•	General Order: Wild Ideas Fund Committee Elections
	•	Noah: We are now electing two students for the Wild Ideas Fund Committee, they do not need to be senators. I open the floor for nomanations. 
	•	Jonathan: I nominate Nick. 
	•	Nick: I accept.
	•	Isaac: I nominate Joji. 
	•	Joji: I accept. 
	•	Joji: I nominate Isaac. 
	•	Isaac: I don’t accept. 
	•	Ruba: I nominate Imtisal. 
	•	Imtisal: I accept. 
	•	Serene: I nominate Angie. 
	•	Angie: I accept. 
	•	Serene: I nominate Will. 
	•	Will: I accept. 
	•	Noah: Everyone please come up and stand in the order you were nominated. Please go down the line and introduce yourself. 
	•	Nick: I’m Nick, nice to meet you. I’m a sophomore and this is my second year on ASG. I want to be on this committee because I think ASG oversight is important, since we talked about this for so long. I think it’s important to have vocal senators on this committee. Secondly, I’ve done this sort of thing before. I was on RHA and we gave money to student groups that submitted proposals. Furthermore, I’d like to work with outside councils to pool money and produce better events. I’d like to bring those communities together to improve the process. 
	•	Joji: I’m on CRC as well as Student Groups. On Student Groups I work with funding and I have seen the funding process. This is similar, except that everyone can come up. I have that skillset but want to apply it differently. This committee makes a hands on impact and I think I have a diverse interest amongst different student groups I’m a part of as well as ASG. 
	•	Imtisal: I’m a senior and I am interested in this committee because I think it is new and necessary to give groups access to funding. I think it’s important to give different groups access to funding systems. I was part of an A status group but I was in charge of programming in that group that was not funded by the SAF. I also have experience on the Diversity and Inclusion Committee. 
	•	Will: I am a junior studying poli sci. I am a former Korean marine and I was driving tanks for two years. I want to join this committee, because I want to be as involved in Northwestern as I was with the marines. I think it is necessary to create a compact and mingling society. I used to work at a national assembly budgeting office, so I have that experience. I also worked at Samsung in their HR department so I had to look at a lot of resumes and condense information. 
	•	Angie: I’m a sophomore and I’m new to ASG, but I’m looking to devote a lot of my free time to devote energy to something this important. I’m excited to work with a brand new committee. My relevant experience, I have been involved with budgeting. I’m good at crunching numbers and reconciling budgets. I think this would be a fun opportunity. 
	•	Noah: Questions. 
	•	Kenny: Before Wild Ideas, do you think ASG had an inequitable funding model? 
	•	Joji: I think that Wild Ideas is good because of how open it is and that it is larger. We didn’t used to have such an open opportunity and I like this is available to more students. My understanding of last year is that students may have felt restricted. I think SAFC and SGC are working towards improvements and making sure that the system is more fair. I think it’s a work in progress but we are making good strides. 
	•	Imtisal: I’m going to be a little less diplomatic. It was not equal, which is not a knock to ASG, but it’s an issue of access and knowledge. Larger groups have more institutional memory, but other groups don’t have the ability to navigate the bureaucracyacy. I think the WIF will be a good step in the right direction. 
	•	Will: There is inequality, but it’s not a bad inequality. To promote within an student organization you need to have a goal. If you want to be A status, you need to work hard to get there. To get funding you need to improve your group. But I think the WIF Committee is important because it creates another atmosphere. 
	•	Angie: I agree. I think that this fund could help groups right from the start to help them form when they wouldn’t have otherwise. 
	•	Nick: I think there has been inequity in terms of how student groups get funding. The A status organizations that get the least still get way more than B statuses. This fund is for new events that those funding models can’t do. 
	•	Isaac: What do you think the WIF should fund? What do you think the general purpose is? 
	•	Imtisal: I am envisioning a fund that fosters creativity and new projects to shape Northwestern. 
	•	Will: I think the WIF should be more small student organizations that do not have the capacity. Including cultural ideas. 
	•	Angie: Small groups the funds to grow and groups to establish themselves. 
	•	Nick: Fun, entertaining events. UChicago does stuff from their slush fund. Like bouncy castles!
	•	Joji: I think the purpose is to help foster community regardless of what that community is. 
	•	Daniel: Which organizations do you think are overfunded and which are underfunded? 
	•	Will: I wouldn’t name a specific group, but I think some cultural organizations do not properly use their funding. I think groups that help the community should be increased. 
	•	Angie: I would need to do more research to answer that question, but I think it depends on what the students want.
	•	Nick: Funding isn’t a zero sum game and I think that’s a polarizing way to look at it. The decision should be made based on our values as an organization. 
	•	Joji: I would like to respectfully decline to answer that, but students should get the money they need achieve their goal. 
	•	Imtisal: On a similar note, I haven’t been to every SAF funding event so I can’t speak to that. I would just say that I am going to come into this without biases. The WIF Committee will have a lot of proposals that will not all be chosen, but hopefully we’ll choose events that will benefit the Northwestern committee. 
	•	General Order: Chief of Staff Selection Committee Nominations
	•	[Noah explains selection committee]
	•	2 students for chief of staff committee. We will now take nominations.
	•	kevin: I nominate Robin
	•	Robin accepts
	•	Alex: I nominate myself
	•	Noah: that closes nominations. Can the nominees please come to the front to introduce themselves?
	•	Robin: i’m interested in this committee because i’m interested in having a say on this committee. i’m a freshman and i’m unfamiliar with the system and how people interact with it, and that might be useful.
	•	Alex: i’m a senior caucus whip, i’ve been on ASG 
	•	eric: what is your availability monday and tuesday eve?
	•	Alex: monday i’m free before 8, tuesday before 8
	•	Bella: What do you see the Chief of Staff’s role being? 
	•	Robin: My only interaction was his role in getting people involved. It’s a very important decision and affects everyone in ASG and around campus. I think we need to consider who occupies that role. 
	•	Alex: I worked closely with David when he was CoS and he made his priorities clear. I believe I have gotten a good idea from Rafael’s exec reports what the general gist of his role is. The CoS needs to identify gaps and fill them. It is not just about recruitment, but also retention and that ASG works well as a team. 
	•	Isaac: Motion to end questions. 
	•	Noah: No objections, then we move to debate. 
	•	Isaac: Motion to white ballot. 
	•	Noah: No objections we’ll move to a vote. Congratulations. 
	•	Old Business: SL1415-02 Student Leadership Stipend Committee
	•	Erik: Hi everyone. Just to reiterate this is the creation of the committee that will create and execute the Student Leadership Stipend Program. Basically, I would be heading the committee and select the committee. The committee will be shaping the application, mainly the merits based portion. The committee will not be looking at the financial side. They will also determine how we will advertise the program and reach students, especially low income students. 
	•	Alex: How many members are you planning to select? 
	•	Erik: 6-10
	•	Lauren: Will the committee only be around for one cycle? 
	•	Erik: Yes.
	•	Grace: Since you are only doing the merit part, is everyone who passes the financial part equal? 
	•	Erik: The student run committee will be blind to the financial side, so they won’t have the final say. We will probably have a ranked list and then finances would be considered. 
	•	Vicky: How do you plan on selecting this committee? 
	•	Erik: I’ve reached out to groups like NCDC, GES, Wildcat Welcome, etc. I want to reach out to a diverse group of people and anyone can be on the committee. If people are interested, feel free to reach out to me. 
	•	Vicky: Did you reach out to the groups as groups or to individuals? 
	•	Erik: I reached out to them as individuals. 
	•	Noah: We are moving into debate and are in line for a con. 
	•	Vicky: Erik, I love you and I trust you to pick great people. But I think you perspective is limited to the people you know and are aware of. I think there should be an open application that is open to the entire committee. In addition to that, I think whoever you do select should be approved by Senate. 
	•	Vicky: I motion to add that “there will be an open application for those wishing to apply to the committee and the committee will be approved by Senate.”
	•	Noah: We are now in debate and are open to cons. 
	•	Alex: I discussed this with my caucus and I was initially going to propose this. Because this is so short term and thinking of how pressing this is, I think it is the role of the EVP. The students expressed their trust in Erik when they elected him and it was in their platform. 
	•	Lauren: Erik how much longer do you think it would take? 
	•	Erik: Considering the fact we still need to put together the PR, we are already pushing back reviewing applications to Thanksgiving break. My deadline for confirming this committee was going to be next Wednesday. 
	•	Ronak: Given that a lot of student groups elect their student groups in the Spring is there a reason this needs to happen early in fall? 
	•	Erik: Part of the reason to do it in the fall is because it is easier for financial aid to provide info in the fall. The earlier students can know about it the better. It’s not so much the distribution of the stipend, but the committee’s ability to review applications. 
	•	Lauren: Motion to previous question. 
	•	Noah: Any objections? Okay we move to a vote. 
	•	Alex: Division
	•	Aye: 9, Nay: 20, Abstained 6. 
	•	Motion to previous question. Second. 
	•	Noah: Now we will vote as a whole. It passed unanimously. 
	•	Good of the Order & Announcements
	•	Roll Call and Adjournment
	•	Google Presentation
 
