Senate 10/30/2013

3/5/14 8:59 AM

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
• Katie: We did Caucus Whip elections for two caucuses. Congrats to
Sarah and Harrison. Off-Campus will be happening last week. I just
want to remind everyone the half absence policy at Caucus. Send
out the ASG Weekly. If you have trouble with accessing
• Abby: Attendance!
• Ani: Thanks for passing DM last week. If you have issues with
accessibility, please come talk to me. Keep an eye out for the major
mental health initiative called Greater Than. Hannah Brock is
heading it up and working with other student groups on campus to
show that there are mental health issues on campus and we should
overcome this stigma.
• Alex: Look at exec board report. 10K Initiative committee has been
filled. Anna Radoff and Julia Coppleman are our newest members.
• David: Thanks again for passing the bill last week. We had
ultimately 150 apply for the money. So it went to good use. We
will have to see how much of the money will actually go into use. I
am working on a bunch of stuff, so look at my report. If you are an
underclassman, please consider becoming a mentee. It will help
better engage you in ASSG and greater Northwestern.
• Sofia: Student Faculty Interaction Grant publishing will be pushed
this week. Please look into it and consider applying. Talk to your
teachers and there are wonderful opportunities coming for it. We
are looking at a lot of other things, read it and reach out to me with
questions.
• Kevin: My exec board report is mostly about Cats Come to Dinner
which we did this past week. We shuttle students over to houses of
local Evanston neighbors. It was a great event and we are looking
to do it again in the winter and spring. We are also brainstorming a
bunch of new projects. Next week we are having a Kids and Cats
event that is not through ASG or my committee but we are looking
for volunteers to talk to these students.

Neel: We are finalizing de-recognizing groups this week. Funding is
this Saturday. Other than that, we are presenting funding next
week as new business.
• Noah: This week we collaborating with Academic and Tech
committees to implement more information on CourseSeek.
• Sheng: NUIT Summary meeting- they are upgrading the Wi-Fi and
they are upgrading buildings as funding suffices. Going up 70% up
from 55% for outdoor Wi-Fi. NUTV is out and they are looking to.
Looking to replace Blackboard with Canvas.
• Julia: We are starting weekly email blast group called Campus Loop.
List of emails is growing and the events will be categorized.
• Wes: Look at my exec board report. If you want CFL bulbs or
shower heads, please email me. We have a lot left. If your student
group is having an event in the future, consider using our
consulting services.
New Business: SL1314-03: Increasing Environmental Dialogue in the
Partisan Political Environment
• Harrison: My name is Harrison and I serve as a Senator for Allison,
and I am a member of NUSPAN. It is a newer group on campus and
we are looking to have an event. We have invited Aaron Greco from
Argon Labs and we are looking to make this a sustained event with
him as our first speaker. We are wanting to talk about environment
issues in the politicized arena. Because we are a new group, we
have limited funds. We have already secured Aaron as a speaker,
but we could use money for food and drinks. We will have ASG be a
sponsor on the programs, but because the group was in its
formation process this quarter, we will have money for it in the
future. We will not be coming back to ASG for this money w
• Alex: What type of food are we bringing?
• Harrison: we are looking to buy cupcakes and we are expecting to
bring in about 50 people.
• Sean: Bring in? Is it not an open event?
• Harrison: It is open, but as a new group that is how many we are
expecting.
• Ani: Could you touch on what other types of funding you have been
seeking?
•

Harrison: This quarter, because we were still forming our group.
November 11th we are applying for the Northwestern Sustainability
Fund. If we get granted that money, we will return the money from
the pool. I just wanted to ensure the funds get secured.
• Dillon: What not just ask for the money after the grant deadline?
• Harrison: I just wanted to bring it back early so we are not pressing
the group or you guys for time. I want you to have time to go back
and talk to your constituencies.
Good of the Order & Announcements
• David: DM Trivia is every Wednesday at 9pm. I know your
• Abby: Go to Project Scare this weekend!
Roll Call and Adjournment
•

Senate 11/06/2013

3/5/14 8:59 AM

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
• Katie: Caucus attendance-CAUCUS IS MANDATORY just like Senate.
You get a half absence and that counts toward your final absence
total. Also, join the Facebook group.
• Ani: Greater than, our mental health initiative, is being launched
this week. Our overall initiative is call “Free your Mind” and it will be
a yearlong initiative. WE will have a website to centralize all the
information. I am also working with Chris for a new launch of PLI
that will have a stronger focus on sophomores and freshmen. We
have asked VP’s to nominate people, and you are also open to
apply as well. It is a great opportunity and apps open tomorrow.
• Alex: 10K will be launched on November 20th. So start thinking of
ideas. Idea brainstorming will go until the end of the quarter. Talk
to people
• David: Hey! So I have kind of a significant topic to preview you all
about. I have been thinking about Senate reform again. Thank you
for the input I have received so far. So for a bit of context, every
year I have been here, I am now a senior, that every year a Senate
Reform has come up. And while some legislation of some sort have
been passed to increase accountability for senators, but a greater
change has not been enacted. Currently, I see two problems
regarding Senate Reform. 1. Senators feel that it is just one
singular group coming up with the plan. 2. They present one solid
plan that you have no input. So, next week we are having an open
focus group forum during Senate next week. Also, a week from
Monday we will have a larger meeting for all students. We will also
solicit various members of campus to get their input. Then we will
devise 3-5 plans to then present in Senate to vet and then we will
present one final plan. Any questions?
• Alex: Do you think next week will be the best day because of
funding?
• David: yes we talked about it, and it should be fine. Also, fill out the
survey I sent

Ani: Also, one more thing. Please sign up for mentorship program.
It is a really cool opportunity. Also the mentorship program will be
apart of the PLI curriculum as well.
• Sophia: It is Week 7 for you all don’t know, so I have been doing a
lot of considerable outreach this week. I have reach out to graduate
students, advisory boards. So if you have any personal contacts,
that would be really helpful for me to pass along. We are following
up on library chargers. Looking at practicum’s and JR’s. Please also
look at the Student Faculty Interaction Grant. It is a really neat
opportunity and you really should consider applying.
• Kevin: I will keep it brief. We just finished brainstorming and we
are in the beginning works of starting projects. We will be helping
out with the Evanston downtown bash. We are getting various
student groups to perform. Also, look out for the housing fair on
December 4th, and we will have another in the Winter. If you are
involved in a student group that wants to get further involved in the
community, please let me know. We are looking to be a resource
for students this week.
• Siddiq: We are working on supplementary funding. If you or your
student group has any funding questions, please contact me.
• Neel: We just finished funding. And we have a vacancy on the
committee, so we will being so a small recruitment. It is one of the
best committees. We put on the fall activities fair and work with b
and t status groups.
• Noah: We started coding for the unofficial student guide and it is
going well. Course seek got access to Caesar, minus CTECs. For the
study abroad guide, we decided to do London, Paris, and Buenos
Aires. I am really excited. If you can help out with interviews, that
would be great. Contact me.
• Julia: Campus Loop is coming out tonight. I also have been working
on the mental health initiative. We are working on a lot of internal
and external outreach. We are also working on a history of ASG. Let
me know if you want to help out.
Old Business: SL1314-03: Increasing Environmental Dialogue in the
Partisan Political Environment
•

•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•
•

•

Harrison: hey guys, so same thing as last year. No changes. This is
an event for NUSPAN, a graduate student group that got spread t
Chris: Have you thought about partnering with other student
groups on campus? I think this could be a great opportunity.
Harrison: That’s a great question. You can pool resources that way.
NUSPAN as it launches into the undergraduate student body, we
want to hold a lot of programming with many student groups. This
event specifically, we want this to be a repeat even for NUSPAN and
working with another group would hurt us next year with securing
funds.
Chris: So as a follow up, I think there are other groups on campus
that could help out.
Harrison: of course I understand that the Pool should be a last
resort, but we have gone to all of the resources we have explored.
Siddiq: Can you talk about other events that NUSPAN has put on
and the results?
Harrison: NUSPAN was a graduate student group. They had a
speaker last week. We had a small fall event, and for a new group
and a fairly last minute event, I was happy with the 20-25 people
that came. We want to add something to the environmental event.
Siddiq: How many undergraduate students came to the event, and
how many are on your exec board?
Harrison: 2 on the exec board and I am not sure how many came
to the spring event?
Siddiq: Do you think that this $50 is essential for the program to be
put on?
Harrison: for the best and full experience event, yes I do. I think
that the speaker is essential and then that food afterward would be
it essential.
Chris: At first I felt like $50 was not so much, but now I feel that
we as ASG should be encouraging now
Mark: Just so you know NUSPAN has a student that sits on the
sustainability committee, and it has been a group that has a PHD.
There is collaboration, but not financial.
Alex: Are there any funds that are going towards the speaker?

•
•
•
•
•

•

•

•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

Harrison: The speaker has been secured, so this is only for food
afterwards.
Alex: Is it okay for the funds to be allocated towards the speaker,
and not food?
Harrison: yes I guess that could happen. It is only an accounting
change.
Parag: Can you describe what you see as the future of NUSPAN.
Harrison: We want to discuss environmental events in the political
arena. We want this to be a policy discussing group, and I feel that
this event is the start of that.
Neel: The reason we don’t want normally give student groups food
is because we don’t find it sustainable. So have you looked into
venues that provide food?
Harrison: we did go to multiple different sources for food, well
groceries stores because we want cupcakes. I think that cupcakes
set a certain mood. We have looked at other sources, like the
sustainability fund. As far as the project pool goes, the pool should
be a last resort. We have tried to be organized, and we understand
that ASG should be our last line of defense and we are there. This is
a first time event. We want it to be sustainable, so we will not be
asking for further funds next year.
Katie: Question period is over.
Ani: Motion to amend to change the line item to cover the cost of
the speaker for the event.
Senator: 2nd
Katie: [Reads amendment] Any objections?
Sean: I object. Just seeing as what we have been discussing, we do
not fund retroactively. This event will occur no matter what, they
have the speaker. So, we should just fund the food, not what has
already been funded.
Mark: Just remember the pool is open for however Senators see fit.
Katie: We will now have a con for the amendment.
Adam: This is a more professional change. Food is not necessary,
and a speaker is more professional as well.
Alex: I don’t want a precedence that student groups can come to
Senate for food money, and a speaker is a much better choice.

Ani: To echo Mark’s comment, you can spend the pool money
however you see fit. I am just asking you all not to set a
precedence for food. I want to help student groups with this money,
but I want it to go to the speaker.
• Isaac: I have an issue with just misplacing funds so it looks like we
allocated money for a speaker. That is just disingenuous.
• Sean: We can just willy-nilly just spend the money on a case-bycase basis. Funding an event retroactively does not show
sustainability.
• Harrison: I just think retroactive is misleading.
• Sean: What I mean is that you already locked down the speaker.
• Senator: PQ
• Katie: We will not move to a vote.
• [Amendment fails]
• The original language stands.
• Katie: We are in line for con speech.
• Senator: PQ
• Senator: 2nd
• Katie: We will move to a vote.
• [Legislation passes]
New Business: B and T-Status Funding
• Neel: So we kind of change of the way we allocated our funding this
year. We used to give money for things like storage, but this year
we started with programming funding, and then leftover funds went
to public storage, etc. That is why the amount of public storage
went down form $350 to $100. We had a lot of limitations and had
to be a little bit stingy. We get about $11,000 for 80 groups. Next
week is when stuff happens.
• Katie: Please look over the packets we will be voting next week.
Again you can’t vote for your own funding and if you have any
Good of the Order & Announcements
• David: COME TO DM TRIVIA! 9pm at BDubs.
• Sean: A&O is screening Drinking Buddies. Come and the director
will be there.
• Alex: NU Veterans Association. We are holding our general meeting
from 3-5pm. Anyone is welcomed.
•

Nikki: this Saturday is our first home basketball game. Come out
and support.
• Mark: Do you want $50,000 for student group? Apply to the
sustainability fund. We are accepting applications for sustainable
group ideas.
• Taylor: Tomorrow at Harris at 8, we are having a NU Forward
group. We are lobbying against Illinois congressmen about
immigration rights.
Roll Call and Adjournment
•

