ASG Senate Journal - 4/9/2014

Northwestern University
Associated Student Government
Meeting of the Senate
April 9, 2014
I.

Call to Order and Roll Call
o

II.
III.

[Meeting called to order at approx. 7:20 PM]

Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
o

Katie: I don’t have anything to say…

o

Abby: None!

o

Rafael: I just finished up apps for exec applications for all the cabinet positions.
Apply from the website starting tomorrow.

o

Anna: I talked with JPK about SafeRide. She saw the legislation and scheduled a
meeting with me, and that is kind of unheard. They can’t undo the change, but they
will be doing a comprehensive analysis of all forms of transportation this spring.
This spring, they will be doing a dining master plan and two of my committee
members will be sitting on that. Also, 3 outside consultants will be hired. It will
come out late summer or early fall. If you have any questions, let me know.

o

Kevin: I have a couple of things, but I will go more into that when it comes in. I also
am presenting legislation based upon our DC trip. Sodexo is also bringing local
restaurants to campus. We are starting with one, and bringing more hopefully. We
are working with student groups and consulting with them about their community
relations. We are meeting with A-, B- and T-status groups. Let me know if your
student group is interested.

o

McKenzie: Hi. So hopefully we will be confirming the SAFC vacancies.

o

Serene: I am working on some resources for resources and checklists to use on
campus. Alex and I are also putting out apps for our committee tomorrow.

o

Alex: Apps for my SGC is going out tomorrow. Apply if you are interested. We help
recognize the B- and T-status groups on campus to make sure they are the best
they can be. If this sounds like you are interested, please reach out to me. We will
be filling at least 14-16 spots. And at least half have to be current or prior Senators.
We are also doing annual review right now.

o

Noah: We starting righting transition reports. Both unofficial guides will be
released early May hopefully. One of my committee members made a dining hall
app. Check it out! If your student group would like food trucks at an event, let my
committee member Derek know! Also, if you have any constructive criticism for
me, let me know!

o

Wes: We are doing some student group consulting and my committee will be
putting up some legislation soon.

o

Ani: Exec cabinet applications will be coming out tomorrow. Global village is also
working on securing the meadow. We are also doing some Free Your Mind work.

o

Sofia: We are gearing up for the hack-a-thon. Please may attention to
announcements about that. We are also working on Caesar still. We still. My
committee will probably be soft recruiting in the Spring.

IV.

General Order: Announcement of Election Results
o

Dana: As you may have seen on social media, our new President and EVP are Julia
Watson and Erik Zorn. I also would like to congratulate everyone who worked on a
campaign. It was a violation free campaign, which has never happened before.
Every 250 votes, we switched who was votes. 1758 voters this year.

V.

o

Evan: How does that compare to last year?

o

Dana: It is lower.

o

Chris: 3473 vote last year.

General Order: Speaker of the Senate Transition
o

Katie: We will know administer the oath to Noah.

o

[Katie Administers Oath]

o

[Katie’s Speech]

VI.

VII.

General Order: Parliamentarian Transition
o

[Abby Administers Oath]

o

[Abby’s Speech]

Special Order: Big Ten on the Hill
o

Noah: So now, Big Ten on the Hill.

o

Chris: Laptops?

o

N: No.

o

Kevin: Sent delegation to DC. These are the people who went. There for
Association of Big Ten students. First time we have been there in a number of
years. Great opportunity. Meetings we had, here we go!

o

Rebecca: Senior in ASG and on CRC. First day, we went to the white house
outreach office, and met with someone in charge of youth outreach and told us
what is on the president's agenda. Went to the CFPB, created after financial crisis
to ensure consumer protections, including students. Cool to know that government
is looking out for us. We received personal emails later.

o

Kevin: Want to continue working.

o

R: Went to Education Department and Civil rights dept. New ratings system to be
instituted for all colleges. Talked about sexual assault through Civ Rights Dept. We
asked questions, got a lot of feedback. Focused a lot on sexual assault. Also went to
a Title IX speech and learned a lot from fellow students about T9 issues.

o

K: Went to various meetings and broke up into groups. Rep Schneider (Highland
Park). Then met with Sen. Dick Durbin's office. Then Sen. Kirk's office, and met him
in person. Then went to Danny Davis' office. And finally with Rep. Schakowsky.

o

Liz: Talked about a lot of issues like mental health, higher education act, sexual
assault with many members of Congress and the federal government.

o

K: Glad we got to talk with a lot of people about these issues. Encourage y'all to
stay up to date on issues relevant to college students, and bring them up.

o

Ani: We did talk about many of the college issues, as well as initiatives individual
campuses like our own have enacted. Used to encourage federal government to act
federally on these issues. No university has violated T9 egregiously enough to get
government punishment. Many T9 cases have been settled. We want transparency.

o

K: We backed many bills like Rep J's mental health bill and Sen Durbin's textbook
affordability law.

o

C: We could talk more. But we want to hear questions.

o

Lauren: Any talk on streamlining FAFSA?

o

Ani: Yes, met with CFPB to streamline FAFSA and make it more used.

o

C: Higher Ed Act is very large bill. FAFSA reform will take place, likely next year.

o

A: Will extend FAFSA for another year.

o

Evan: College ranking system?

o

Liz: Very interesting. They were honest and were unsure on how it was going to be
used. Uncertainty on graduation rates, sexual assault, tuition, and they will take
suggestions on how to create the rankings and decide its use.

o

C: Right now, it’s a grand vision. Long term hope to roll out to wider audience and
find out how to holistically rank colleges and allow people to see if they are getting
value out of their education. Talked to Gallup, and they said data needed doesn't
exist yet and will need to be collected. Financial aid will be tied to these rankings
eventually, probably by 2018. Two years before they would even sanction a
university after receiving their initial rank.

VIII.

Special Order: ASG Hackathon
o

Noah: Hackathon?

o

Sofia: Yeah we're going to do a quick presentation.

o

Christine: Hackathon will be on the 25th and 26th.

o

Steven: API is way to program apps and websites in order for people to receive
data. CAESAR and Wildcat Connection API will be released for this hackathon in
order to allow students to develop these services. Goal is to ensure that our tech
services are not continuously … crappy.

o

Sofia: So, here's the website. Lists the prizes, etc.

o

C: We will have judges to select winners, 2000 for first, 1000 for second. Students
will also select their best, and 2000/1000 will also be up for grabs. Emerging
underclassmen award of 500 dollars.

o

S: This is for programmers, graphic designers, and all kinds of students. Sponsored
by the project pool, and has a ton of sponsors with lots of support from campus.
Lots of support from alums, which is super cute. This is the first time we have had a

hackathon. We hope whatever is developed out of it will benefit the campus at
large. You will be getting an email, and I encourage you all to participate and show
up and support your peers. Event will take place in Norris.

IX.

o

Wendy: Will people have teams already, or will they be placed in teams?

o

C: Both

o

Lauren: How many people per team?

o

C: Up to 6

o

ASA: [no idea]

o

S: Only class information will be available. No personally identifying information.

o

D: [unsure]

o

C: No coding experience needed. All levels encouraged.

o

Chris: Target for people.

o

C: 100 people.

o

C&S: Take flyers.

General Order: SAFC Confirmations
o

Noah: OK SAFC confirmations.

o

Mackenzie: We are just filling vacancies now. Is not normal recruitment.

o

Candidate: Served as PR VP for McSA. Involved with NU World Cup. I think that I
have an area of expertise that people can benefit from.

o

Justin: I've been a B- status and A status treasurer before. Know SOFO and have
been through many funding processes. I know how groups acquire SAFC money.
Dealt with Amrit, and he's wonderful, and want to give my knowledge back.

o

C: Majoring in EECS. Been part of numerous communities across campus the past
two years. Been part of Wildcat Welcome, NESBE, etc. SAFC affects community at
large. I enjoy the community here, and hope to bring that as an AE.

o

John: Time conflicts?

o

C: This would be my main commitment for the upcoming year. Not on McSA
anymore. This would take center stage.

o

J: Serve on my theatre board. B-status and not a large class load. Can manage it.

o

C: Will not be on other exec boards next year. Work at Norris should not interfere.

o

Eliza: Are these just for vacancies?

o

M: Yes.

o

Chris: So this would only be for 1-2 months?

o

M: Yup.

o

Noah: Questions?

o

Noah: OK, exit the room for debate period.

o

Noah: You know the drill.

o

Chris: Why are these the best?

o

M: We are losing a lot of great members. They each represent a unique section of
the campus, and some of these areas are underrepresented. They represent a large
spectrum that will bring a lot of light to complaints from these groups and their
needs.

X.

o

Noah: Other stuff.

o

Senator: PQ. 2nd.

o

Chris: White ballot [passes]

o

Noah: All in favor? [Passes by voice vote].

General Order: Community Engagement Grant
o

Noah: Isaac?

o

Isaac: CEG is in its 2nd year and is a 500-dollar grant for NU students to do
programming or things to improve our relationship with Evanston.

o

Steven: Very specific...

o

Isaac: Thank you. [Laughs]. We had 17 apps, up from 12 last year. Went through
multiple rounds to select the finalists. We did this via a committee with me, Chris,
Charlise Agnew, Tony Kirchmeier, Kevin, etc. We are recommending the three:
Zuze, NU Mini Chefs, and Supplies for Dreams. I will outline the line items.

o

Isaac: 300 for NU Mini Chefs. They work with students in Albany Park to learn how
to cook healthy and good food. This money will allow them to expand into
Evanston.

o

Kevin: Charlise was passionate about this, and will take advantage of civic centers.

o

I: Confident they will do good work. 100 dollars for Zuze. Make sandwiches for
Evanston homeless people. Will do good for us, Evanston, and many other people.

o

K: Program run from Hillel. Will help with some of their operating costs.

o

I: Yeah, it’s for PB, J and bread. SfD is recommended 100 dollars to make backpacks
with supplies for underprivileged students in the area. They want to reach out to
Evanston more this year.

o

K: Other Evanston organizations want to tie in with the city via SfD. This year, CEG
focused more on Evanston rather than Chicago. We had to narrow it to Evanston,
because there were so many good groups to fund. We will follow up with the
groups we did not fund, in order to see if there's any way we can help them or find
outside funds.

o

I: Groups were given Charlise Agnew's information to follow up.

o

K: Questions?

o

N: Alex?

o

Alex: PBJ not most nutritious.

o

I: Sandwiches are supplement to food already given out at shelters.

o

A: Have they considered other options?

o

Chris: Our job is not to critique their operations. We just want to engage students.

o

John: Zuze does a small thing, but plays a critical role.

o

John 2: Backpacks stuffed with what?

o

Committee: School supplies.

o

Noah: Cool. Seeing no other questions…

o

Chris: So we actually need you guys to approve this, even though it is allocated for
in the budget.

o
XI.

Noah: We will now move to a vote. [passes by voice vote]

New Business: SL1314-26: Promoting Student Activism on Sexual Assault Policies
o

Noah: Authors you can come up.

o

Kevin: Something we put together earlier this week out of our briefing with the
Know Your Title IX group in D.C. This has been a pertinent issue on our campus,
and some groups have already been engaging. This is a national issue. This goes
beyond the Ludlow issue, and Obama already made a task force on the issue of
sexual violence in order to draft recommendations. White House asked us for ideas
and our feedback. 1 in 5 college females has been affected.

o

Ani: Background on efforts thus far. We have had some members of Exec working
with other students on T9 case. We want to bring those efforts to the forefront and

gain momentum on them. Multiple student groups and offices working on it. We
want to create this forum, and want to ensure this issue doesn't fall of the radar
during the summer. We want to engage with this issue in a long-term format. We
don't want to be the experts on the matter, so this bill authorizes the exec board to
take action and bring back some recommendations in 3 weeks to Senate. We want
to have an outline of a plan for what we and NU can do. Could take 6, 12, 18
months, totally up to you and our partners.
o

Liz: We discovered over the weekend that many colleges have great policies and
groups, but many students are unsure of what they are entitled to when assault
happen. Enforcement of T9 is not as stringent as it should be. We want to ensure
people know their Title IX rights.

o

Ani: Kind of like alcohol policy here was unclear a few years ago, and has been
clarified now. We want to ensure in the past that no one's T9 rights haven't been
violated, and will not in the future.

o

K: First step. We are looking forward to see what we can do.

o

Noah: Questions? Alex?

o

Alex: What will happen if you get stonewalled due to the current court case?

o

Ani: We do not expect that to happen. Administration is willing to work with us. We
want to clarify how the policies will work for us in the future. Answers have been
satisfactory, but we want to know more.

o

Alex: How does this take transitions into account?

o

K: Entire exec board has been currently working on this.

o

Alex: What changes when this bill passes?

o

Ani: This is ideally something that the Executive Board comes to Senate and asks
can we start doing this. Usually the executive board comes to Senate and asks what
can we do. This is a much more concrete issue.

o

Alex: Motion to move this to Old Business.

o

Petros: Any objections?

o

Petros: Old Business. And now Noah will take over.

o

Noah: And now we are in debate.

o

Stephen: Motion to amend?

o

N: There is a motion to amend. Second?

XII.

o

Senate: Second.

o

Stephen : Amendment-"Be it enacted by the Associated Student Government".

o

Senate: Second.

o

Noah: Vote. [passes]

o

Alex: PQ. [seconded]

o

Noah: No objections. All in favor of PQ. [passes]

o

Noah: Final vote on the bill. All in favor? [Passes by voice vote].

Good of the Order & Announcements
o

Stephen: Tell everyone about Hackathon.

o

Petros: Donuts!

o

Alex: University 122 at 4 pm, NUVA is having a film screening. Come out for it.

o

Jonathan: Passover is next week. Hillel has Seders Monday and Tuesday nights.
Everyone is welcome to come.

o

Jacob: Sign up for round tables.

o

Senator: SJP Event in Harris 107, Shattered Hopes.

o

Eliza: Battle of the Bands for Mayfest apps are out now. Opportunity to be at Dillo!
Due on 18th, dilloday.com

XIII.

Roll Call and Adjournment
o

Petros: I will call names in reverse order. Say here when name is called, and sub if
you are an alternate. [Roll call conducted]

o

Noah: Thank you everyone for being patient with me and Petros today. Senate
adjourned [approx. time of adjournment 8:45 PM].
Presiding,
Katie Funderburg/Noah Star
Speaker of the Senate
Journal Submitted for Approval,
Abby Klearman/Petros Karahalios
Parliamentarian

