
ASG Senate Meeting
05 January 2011
Northwestern Room
7:00pm
	•	Call to Order and Roll Call
	•	Approval of the Journal
	•	Approved
	•	Executive Board Reports
	•	Gabby: ASG is hosting interNU tomorrow.  Basically it’s an event with UCS.  They’re bringing out their whole crew to Norris tomorrow.  It’s a way to get advice about internships, resumes, cover letters.
	•	Liz: The Winter Activities Fair will be Thursday the 20th.  If you’re a student group senator and your group hasn’t signed up yet, shoot me an email.
	•	Claire: Two things.  First we created the Senate representation committee.  If you’re interested in being a part of this, email Claire.  Next.  Every year, all schools from the Big Ten get together and have a student government retreat.  It’s next weekend—we leave Friday afternoon, and we’ll get back Sunday morning.  Email Claire before Friday if you’re interested
	•	Matt: At the start of every quarter we take a look at what we’ve done last quarter.  So this is just an overview of what we accomplished.  [power point].  Trustee engagement, SOFO evaluation, cell phone reception, Book Swap, new NU-Link, external budget guide, President’s video address, Tailgate, etc.  The point of this is to let you and students know what we’re capable of.   We can provide solutions to problems faced by students.
	•	Tyris: Just wanted to formally thank Wilson and Francis for stepping in last quarter.  And thanks to everyone for helping with that transition.  Has a few ideas for next quarter.  First, wants to create senator profile.  Also wants to work on archiving so that you can all look back on past legislation for reference.
	•	Claire: So we’re going to be mixing up Senate a little bit today.  We want to get feedback from you all—first we’ll be talking about UBPC proposals.  Next, we’ll be looking at ideas for the Strategic Plan.  This will be looking forward in the long run.  This is your chance to speak up.
	•	Anil: Is the chair of the UBPC.  Thanks for letting us come here to let us talk to you.  Every year we go to the president, the provost, and the administration, to let them know what students want.  We just want to get some feedback from you today about the things that you and your constituents feel are important.  Also, just letting you know that anything you say will be held in confidence—you won’t be identified in any way for ideas that you express in these focus groups.
	•	Special Order: Associate Director for Student Involvement
	•	Special Order: UBPC Breakout Session
	•	Break into groups
	•	Group I
	•	The thing that we decided that we would most like to fund is a 3rd space for students.  Things that it would be a good way to move the social scene more to campus.
	•	Group 2
	•	We wanted to fund the most was digitizing SOFO.  Basically it would just help student groups streamline their process.  SOFO is really behind technology-wise.  It would be extremely beneficial for board transitions to be able to look back on past ledgers and see the history of transactions.
	•	Another thing we wanted to focus on is increasing the Environmental Science program.  The program here is really lacking.  There are actually a number of people who have transferred because of our lack of an Environmental Science program.  Northwestern is first and foremost an academic institution.
	•	Group 3
	•	We decided to mostly focus on cell phone reception and mail room issues.
	•	Anil: thanks so much!  And please take our online survey
	•	Special Order: Strategic Plan Breakout Session
	•	Claire: This is just a great opportunity to look further ahead in the future
	•	Differentiate, innovate, empower, engage.
	•	Group 1: Differentiate
	•	Talked about moving student life to the center of campus.  Really increasing connectivity.
	•	Group 2: Innovate
	•	Academics.  Especially environmental studies.
	•	More of a hands-on learning experience.  SESP has more discussion-based and intimate classes.
	•	Advising: in WCAS there really is no follow-up with this.
	•	Video lectures
	•	Greater focus on undergrads.
	•	Traditional learning.  Just getting more classes, a broader array of classes.
	•	Transfer credits are rigid, maybe we could improve this.
	•	Group 3: Empower
	•	Lack of traditions.
	•	Updating the RC and RHA system.  We’re behind in our integration of faculty with students.
	•	Increasing community in residence halls.
	•	Increase collaboration of student groups.
	•	Centralized place where student groups can publish events.
	•	Increasing publicity and availability of pre-wildcat week activities.
	•	“shared experiences” 
	•	Group 4: Engage
	•	Always came back to diversity.
	•	Breaking down the North/South campus divide.  Making ourselves a more cohesive community.
	•	General Order: ASB Financial Misconduct
	•	Emma: SAFC voted to give ASB a financial misconduct for failure to hold an event they were funded for last winter.  This just means that they must have more oversight from the SAFC.  We ask that ASB take minutes during their audit trail meetings.  Also they will be helped with their transition process.
	•	Q: Where does that unused money go?
	•	A: It rolls back into the SAF
	•	Good of the Order and Announcements
	•	Aaron: Pick up some of these A&O posters!
	•	Amalia: Next Tuesday is the MLK job fair.  12-4 here.  Peace Corp is coming, CIA is coming.  Just drop by.
	•	Rick: There is an ice-rink.  We think it’ll be ready to go by the end of the week.  Join us at 5pm on Friday for ribbon-cutting. 
	•	Roll Call and Adjournment
