Senate 3/5/2014

4/11/14 8:36 PM

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
• Katie: None
• Abby: Can’t vote on funding if you weren’t here last week
• Ani: Funding tonight guys
• Alex: Funding tonight
• Anna: I have 6 open spots for athletic event tomorrow from 4-6.
Food and free stuff. If you and a friend want to come, let me know.
We are taking a shuttle over. It is in the stadium in the Nicolette
room.
• Sofia: Next week the technology committee for the new
management system to replace blackboard is meeting. Committee
projects are on.
• Kevin: Community engagement grant closes this Sunday. IT is $500
for a community related project. We went to Springfield this week
for Evanston day. Met with lots of state officials and individuals
from the Evanston communities. Looking forward to getting forward
in state and federal issues from here on out. Also had the alderman
event on campus last week. Resources from it are posted online.
• Noah: The link in my exec board report is super important. It is to
submit your opinions about the undergraduate guide.
• Sheng: I met with some people about the API and I will be getting
access soon.
o Lauren: What is that?
o Sheng: It is a data structure to extract course data. TO
develop apps like courseseek.
• Julia: New roundtable for reading week with a McCormick dean.
Complete your PR requirement-come find me or Katie.
General Order: Chief of Staff Selection Committee Election
• Katie: We are now going to elect selection committees.
• Isaac: Point of Order: My intention was to have one election for
each round of elections. If you want to rule against that, I will bring
it up.
• Katie: How was it worded?
• Abby: It was vague, left up for interpretation.

Alex: What would disqualify you for running?
Katie: If you are planning on running for that position. Nominations
Alex: I nominate Arjun.
Arjun: I decline
Harrison: I nominate Petros.
Petros: I accept.
Dana: I nominate myself.
Senator: I second.
Alex: Motion to skip all of this.
Katie: we can’t motion to white ballot until they are introduced.
Petros: I am the senator for Rainbow Alliance
Dana: I am a APO senator. This is my 3rd year in ASG and I was
here for the creation of this position and I know ASG constitutional
memory very well.
• Chris: Motion to white ballot.
• Alex: 2nd
[vote passes]
General Order: Financial Vice President Selection Committee Election
• Katie: we need one student for this selection committee.
• Alex: I nominate Adam Roth.
• Adam: I accept
• Harrison: I nominate Gui.
• Gui: I accept.
• Katie: Will you introduce yourselves.
• Adam: I am Adam and I am already on SAFC and I know the
members well. I love working with student groups about how to
help them better as ASG. And I think knowing that is important in
selecting a new leader.
• Gui: I am a sophomore in Weinberg and I know Harrison, which is
how I know about this. I am involved in AISEC and I am treasury
for a group on campus.
• Adam: is their another position that you would want more than this
on the selections committee.
• Adam: Definitely FVP or SAVP. I have spoken a lot with student
groups and I think I would be good at both.
• Gui: Same.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Grace: What is SAVP?
Adam: FVP is for A-status groups, SGVP is for band T-status
groups. And SAVP is something completely different.
• Katie: Because there is a vacancy, we need 2 positions to be filled.
• Alex: Motion to white ballot.
• Senator: 2nd
[vote passes]
General Order: Vice President for Student Activities Selection Committee
Election
• Katie: We again have 2 positions open.
• Senator: Jane
• Senator: I nominate Noah.
• Parag: I nominate Harrison.
• Steven: I nominate Grace.
• Adam: I nominate myself.
[all accept]
Senator: I nominate Jane.
• Ani: There is no undergraduate member on this committee, but
because we have vacancies we have 2 open spots.
• Jamie: I am a junior and this is my 5th member as a Greek Senator.
I think the position is interesting because as ASG we are always
trying to help student groups. I would
• Noah: I am a sophomore and NCDC senator. I want to be on the
committee because I have a democratic demeanor of sorts, and I
think that also plays into the types of student groups I am on. I am
involved in a wide range of groups, and I think I would have a good
perspective.
• Harrison: I am sophomore and the RHA/RCB caucus whip. We often
don’t have new exec positions and the person selected will set a
precedent.
• Grace: I am an RCB senator. I am on Rules and EC, and I do
believe that the first person sets the precedent. And I would like to
help be apart of that important decision.
• Adam: Sort of like what I said before, I am very passionate about
student groups. I think this position is a great idea. I think there
•
•

are a lot of ways ASG can help student groups and this position is a
great step in the right directions to fill the gaps.
• Adam: Why do you not want to be SAVP?
• Noah: I don’t want to be SAVP because there are people who have
an institutional knowledge that is much greater than mine, but I
have proper insight as to who would hold that knowledge.
• Harrison: I am involved in a lot of student groups, and I know what
type of person should fill it, but I don’t think that is me.
• Grace: As a freshman, I have not been involved in the financial
committees. So I want to be involved in the selection, but I would
not be a good candidate.
• Adam: I did want to run for this position, because I recently got
selected to be an RA. And, I don’t want to overload myself. But
• Jamie: Two groups I am involved (Wildcat Welcome and ASG) in is
looking at a larger picture and helping it. I have gotten a lot of
experience look at grander pictures, and I think I would be good to
select someone who looks at a larger picture in a role like this.
[Winners: Jamie and Noah]
General Order: Vice President for Student Groups Selection Committee
Election
• Katie: While those ballots are counted, we will move on to the next
election, which is for the two positions on the Student Groups Vice
President Selection Committee. Nominations.
• Harrison: I would like to nominate Guilehmo.
• Adam: I’d like to nominate Harrison.
• Amol: I nominate Parag.
• Harrison: I drop out.
• Katie: Nomination floor is closed.
• Gui: I just want to bring a new perspective and learn how things
work.
• Parag: This is my first year in ASG and I want to understand how
the committee works and get more involved. I’m involved in SASA
and we are an umbrella organization.
• Motion to white ballot.
• Katie: All those in favor, please say aye. Any opposed or
abstaining? Wonderful.

Old Business: B and T-Status Funding
• Katie: Now we are going to go into funding. I will read off the
names of the groups in a randomized order. We will be doing an
add round first, then a cut round.
• Alex: How much money do we have to give out?
• Ani: This quarter is a bit unusual. We have an unexpected
leadership change, but that didn’t affect much. Our committee did
not send out the application to a capella groups on time, so we had
to add them to the pool. We had made decisions without the a
capella groups and were a bit more generous than normal. We are
able to sustain the pool, which is $2000 more than normal. There
are 3 groups here that are not on the list. They had some expected
issues falling under “shit happens.” We will put up
recommendations for them. The amendment pool will increase from
$724. The 3 new applications will come from our general fund,
because they really aren’t considered as amendments. There costs
will raise our allocations for $16,000 which would amend the
amendment pool so it is still 5% of the total allocations.
• Lauren: Are we doing A-status funding next week?
• Ani: No, there funding happens in Fall and spring.
• Lauren: Will B and T-Status also have funding in the spring?
• Ani: No the fall.
• Katie: You cannot vote for the groups that you represent in
Senate. I think only one of you falls in that category.
• Isaac: How does half absence count?
• Katie: You cannot vote.
• Alex: Why aren’t we doing the missing groups first.
• Ani: That is up to you.
• Alex: Motion to do that
• Katie: will you state who the 3 groups are.
• Ani: Blast, Extreme-Measures, and Jewish Theatre Ensemble.
• Senator: 2nd
• Katie: Blast come up and introduce yourself.
• Blast: Our funding got lost in our GEs spam folder. In the spring
though we have our biggest show and classes that are open to the
public, so we really need the funding to do this programming.

•
•
•

•
•
•

•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

Katie: Any questions?
Ani: We are pulling some information up, so can JTE come in early.
JTE: There was some issues with our funding. We got funded in
excess for the past year, because ASG had originally though Hillel
funded us which is not true. But we would like to apply for funding.
Alex: So it was ASG's fault.
JTE: It was a series of miscommunications.
GE: I talked to their GE and they had a lack of receipts which
resulted in a misconduct that they thought applied to Spring
funding, which it doesn’t.
Katie: Can someone come speak for Xtreme measures.
Chris: I am doing it. They received their application late, because of
receiving application late and a computer crash.
GE: So we had some problems with the applications. By the time I
got the application, SGC had already met so I told them to go
through funding like this.
Sarah: Can we vote to add the pages and then go through like
normal.
Senator: 2nd
Katie: does everyone understand? So they would just get added,
but you can then appropriately add or cut as the rounds go.
Dana: Can we get the SGC’s opinion? Because to my knowledge
they haven’t been reviewed.
Ani: We are
GE: We all have had the opportunity to at least view the
application, so as we can see there is nothing glaringly wrong.
Jane: Will we know the new amendment pool amount?
Katie: Yes we would be told. [To SGC] How much would that be?
Ani: About $800
Katie: We are now voting to include the Blast and Xtreme Measures
in the packet
[vote passes]
Katie: We are now in line for an add line. You may look at your
computers, if you are using it for funding.
o Purple Haze
o Polish American Student Association

o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

Tonik Tap
Deeva Dance Troupe
World Cup
No Stranger to Fiction
Camp Kesem
Studio 22
Bhangra
Students for Education Reform
STITCH
China Care
Freshman 15
International Student Association
NUWFA
Typhoon Dance Troupe
Roosevelt Institute
Brown Sugar
Boomshaka
Spectrum
Students for Life
China Foresee
Treblemakers
Happiness Club
Campus Kitchens
X-Factors
Japan Club
NOM
AIESEC
American Sign Language Club
Significant Others
NSTV
NEMO
Applause for a Cause
Sit and Spin
Northwestern Flipside
Comedy Forum
Students for Sensible Drug Policy

X: Motion to add under capital improvements. There
was a care package for $75 that I think was intended as
internal use. It is not for internal use.
! GE: Well at first we thought it was for internal use. But,
we do not fund new events either way.
! SSDP: It is for distribution of teaching materials.
! GE: We also do not fund disposable materials other
than $20 for publicity.
! Katie: Anyone 2nd this?
! Ronak: Can they receive the $20 then?
! Senator: 2nd
! Ani: We need a line item.
! Dana: Motion to add a line item for publicity.
! Senator: 2nd
[vote passes]
! Dana: Motion to add $20 to line item publicity.
! Senator: 2nd
[vote passes]
! Ani: Can we add JTE?
! Katie: After this add round.
! Lauren: I have a question. Do we have to follow the
rules of the SGC for funding?
! Katie: No you don’t have to, but they are here to give
their recommendations.
! GE: Also, a lot of our funding is standardized which is
where the amounts come from.
Fusion Dance Company
Asterik
Anubhav
Outing Club
Students for Justice in Palestine
Refresh
Purple Crayons Players
Relay for Life
Vertigo
Project SOAR
!

o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

•
•

•
•
•

o NU Anime Club
o Undertones
o Blast
o Xtreme Measures
Ani: Motion to add JTE.
Katie: Are you adding the line items or the page.
Ani: The page of SGC recommendations. They have an addition
they want to make.
Katie: So you are adding the SGC’s recommendations?
Ani: Yes.
Senator: 2nd
[vote passes]
Katie: So we are going to do an add round for JTE. JTE.
JTE: Motion to add, but we haven’t seen our recommendations yet.
I would like to add money for costumes, $100.
Katie: Is there a second?
Second
Katie: Objections?
Jacob: The reason for the late application is because we thought we
could not apply because of a misconduct. We did not transfer from
our O2 line to our OO line in time, because we did not have receipts
from last spring.
SGC: In your SOFO account there are subaccounts. SGC money
goes to the O2 line and they spend out of their OO line. They are
forced to transfer, which means they need to get a signature from
their GE. Then after the signature they can transfer the money.
JTE: However, because we didn’t have those receipts, we couldn’t
do that.
Ani: Because they could have gotten SOFO for copies, this still
technically counts as a misconduct. We are trying to make an
exception, so we are giving $100 due to standardization of the SGC.
Katie: So we are going to add $100 to costumes.
Senator: 2nd
[vote passes]
JTE: Motion to add $50 to lighting. It costs $700, so even $50
would help, totaling $100.

•

•

•
•
•
•
•

•

•
•
•
•
•

•

GE: We think we are being more than fair by allocating to them half
of what they are asking for. They have had many
miscommunications issues, so we feel like we really did make that
effort.
JTE: Yes, our GE did reach out to us. But we also reached out to her
for this round of funding. And for that meeting, we had to cancel it
last minute. I tried to personally meet with the GE, but she said
that she would rather meet with our treasurer. Basically, timing just
never worked out.
Katie: Any objections? Okay we will move to a vote.
[vote passes]
JTE: motion to add $17.50 to program copies.
Senator: 2nd
JTE: We have to make 300 copies of our programs, and we could
use the $17.50
Ani: I don’t mean to be an asshole, but we are trying to be as fair
as possible to all groups. Their GE reached out 4 or 5 times, and it
is unfortunate that the meeting got canceled.
GE: We also do quarterly audits, and when their GE asked for their
audit, she received no word. We are just trying to be as fair as
possible.
Jane: Object
Katie: Okay we will move to a debate.
Jane: Yes, I understand the misunderstandings. But, groups have
played by the rules and deserve the money.
Katie: Pro speech
JTE: I understand but we are not complacent. There was a
transition that we were not even aware of during the
miscommunication last year when there was the Hillel
misunderstanding. I may not have been copied on those emails, but
Shih Yung has not reached out to us 5 times, and I tried to reach
out to her twice. I also was never let known we could get copies,
but I will for now definitely do that. I also did not know we could
bring in an audit trail.
katie: Con speech

•
•

•
•
•
•
•

Senator: We have already allocated 20% to this group, we should
give the money to their groups.
Petros: I understand there was a miscommunications, but your
treasurer and president should know those rules. And this is unfair
to groups
Grace: What is the process for funding?
Katie: We are have a cut round, and then another add and cut.
Alex: Motion to PQ
Senator: 2nd
[Division:11, 9, 13 Passes]
Katie: okay we are moving to a cut round.
o Purple Haze
o Polish American Student Association
o Tonik Tap
o Deeva Dance Troupe
o World Cup
o No Stranger to Fiction
o Camp Kesem
o Studio 22
o Bhangra
o Students for Education Reform
o STITCH
o China Care
o Freshman 15
o International Student Association
o NUWFA
o Typhoon Dance Troupe
o Roosevelt Institute
o Brown Sugar
o Boomshaka
o Spectrum
o Students for Life
o China Foresee
o Treblemakers
o Happiness Club
o Campus Kitchens

•

o X-Factors
o Japan Club
o NOM
o AIESEC
o American Sign Language Club
o Significant Others
o NSTV
o NEMO
o Applause for a Cause
o Sit and Spin
o Northwestern Flipside
o Comedy Forum
o Students for Sensible Drug Policy
o Fusion Dance Company
o Asterik
o Anubhav
o Outing Club
o Students for Justice in Palestine
o Refresh
o Purple Crayons Players
o Relay for Life
o Vertigo
o Project SOAR
o NU Anime Club
o Undertones
o Blast
o Xtreme Measures
o Jewish Theater Ensemble
Katie: So now are going to go through an additional add round,
then cut round.
o Purple Haze
o Polish American Student Association
o Tonik Tap
o Deeva Dance Troupe
o World Cup
o No Stranger to Fiction

o Camp Kesem
o Studio 22
o Bhangra
! Parag: Motion to add $150 to sound mix.
! Katie: Okay there has been a motion.
! Parag: I have been in touch with the treasurer for an
hour now. Apparently, there is a special sound mixing
process for Bhangra to keep the traditional sound
! GE: I understand they need special help for sound
mixing. But, as I understand it is for competition. And
the SGC funds items that benefit the whole school.
! Katie: Do we have a 2nd?
! Senator: 2nd
! Jane: Objection. I feel like this is something you could
fundraise for.
! Parag: They have had food fundraisers and they raised
dues, but this is to even out the amount.
! Jane: What are the dues?
! Parag: I don’t know. I am not in Bhangra.
! GE: $60
! Grace: POI-Do you do any Northwestern performances?
! Parag: Some on campus, but I believe most
performances are off campus.
! Jane: How many members are on Bhangra?
! Parag: 12
! Sarah: I don’t think this is an appropriate place to ask
for funding. I think it would be better as a project pool
request.
! Grace: I think I remember your group from the SASA
show that definitely had a unique sound. We do fund a
lot of single events. And because they do perform 3
times on campus, I think we should fund it.
! Ronak: Also, we shouldn’t punish them for using a track
off campus, because they will use it on campus too.
! Sarah: How many mixes are there for the year?

Parag: The $200 is for the whole year and it is what is
used at SASA show.
! GE: We understand the cause, but we have a standard
sound amount. We had another group apply for $1600
for an off campus event, and we turned down that
funding as well.
! Jane: We are funding it partially. And because this mix
will be only used partially on campus, we should
partially fund it. Also, there dues could cover it if they
wanted.
! Senator: Motion to PQ
! Senator: 2nd
[vote passed]
Students for Education Reform
STITCH
China Care
Freshman 15
International Student Association
NUWFA
Typhoon Dance Troupe
Roosevelt Institute
Brown Sugar
Boomshaka
Spectrum
Students for Life
China Foresee
Treblemakers
Happiness Club
Campus Kitchens
X-Factors
Japan Club
NOM
AIESEC
American Sign Language Club
Significant Others
NSTV
!

o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

o NEMO
o Applause for a Cause
o Sit and Spin
o Northwestern Flipside
o Comedy Forum
o Students for Sensible Drug Policy
o Fusion Dance Company
o Asterik
o Anubhav
o Outing Club
o Students for Justice in Palestine
o Refresh
o Purple Crayons Players
o Relay for Life
o Vertigo
o Project SOAR
o NU Anime Club
o Undertones
o Blast
o Xtreme Measures
o Jewish Theater Ensemble
• Sarah: Motion to end funding.
• Senator: PQ
• Alex: Object. If we did an add round, I feel like we should do a cut
round. Fine, it’s okay I rescind.
[vote passes]
New Business: SL1314-22: Revamping the FMO Spring Concert
• April: I’m April the coordinator of FMO, and Karley our treasurer
could not be here. We had a lot of venues in mind for our spring
show. We wanted the Shandley Shack or 27 Live, but both of those
won’t work out. So we are taking this as a opportunity to try
something new. SO we booked Norris East Lawn. We have gotten a
quote for a stage for $3100. I think we should get this event funded
because we have been working really hard. We can’t announce our
speaker yet, but we have a band lined up as
• Isaac: How much are you asking for?

April: At first, we thought it was $4800, but I was recently told it
was $3100. But we still want fencing
• Jane: How much is in the pool?
• Abby: $7700
• Lauren: Will you know the exact number next week?
• April: We are meeting with our advisor to get exact numbers?
• Lauren: will the $700 you have been given already be subtracted
from the account.
• April: Yes we will
• Serene: Do you have a back up if it is bad weather.
• April: We are looking for one.
• Serene: What would be your top choice if the stage doesn’t work
out.
• April: we would go to our rain option when we figure that out.
• Isaac: When is this
• April: April 19th
• Eliza: have you gone to any departments?
• April: We are looking to go to the office of the president.
• Harrison: Are there any ways to make the event cheaper to cover
costs of the stage?
• April: We can cut corners, but if we don’t get this funding we will
seek other sources.
• Serene: How much does the stage cost, with lights and everything?
• April: $700
• Serene: Don’t you get money for the venue too?
• April: Yes $525 that paid for the lawn. We need slightly more for
vendors and things like that to have at the show.
• Isaac: can you have a line item list next week?
• April: Yes, definitely.
• Eliza: How are you planning on advertising?
• April: We are looking to advertise via Facebook, instagram and
other social media. We really want this to be a bigger event.
New Business: SL1314-23: Global Village
• Haley: Hi I am Haley and I am president of Deering Days.
• AIESEC: Hi I am involved with AIESEC and we are looking this year
to partner with Deering Days to make the event bigger and better.
•

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

Haley: Yes we are looking to join with AIESEC to help with Global
Village. We are hosting 40 student groups and food and are
reaching out to a lot of students.
Alex: it was really loud last year. Will it be this year?
Haley: IT will be on Deering, so hopefully that will help.
Isaac: If your budget only increased $500, why are you asking for
$1500.
Haley: We are looking to make ASG a major sponsor.
Dana: How confident are you that you will get 700-1000 students.
Haley: AIESEC and Deering Days combined have a lot of PR reach
and we have an aggressvie plan.
AIESEC: Also, it will be a huge event on Deering instead of in
Parkes so students walking by will see it.
Lauren: So if you want us to be a sponsor, will you come back last
year and ask for this money again?
Chris: that is a hard question because right now Deering Days is an
umbrella group of ASG.
Serene: If Deering Days and ASG are so intertwined, why do we
need to sponsor this/
Chris: ASG funds $5000 to Deering Days at the beginning of the
year. And like A&O who was an umbrella group, we eventually will
work separately.
Isaac: What funding have you secured?
Haley: we have reached out to over 20 departments.
AIESEC: We are also talking to One Book One Northwestern and the
Office of the President. But we are finalizing numbers
Isaac: How much money from Deering Days is going to this event?
Chris: None
Ani: So you have no money.
Chris: No it was used on the welcoming BBQ.
Ani: the fall BBQ is another animal. The biggest cost is the $3500
surround sound system we have that we figure we don’t need
anymore. The rest of the money goes to tents. Global Village will be
using the same vendor. We also have to lay down floorboards on
the table.
Serene: So what sort of sound system are you using?

Chris: $160 Norris sound system. [gesturing to screen] This is kind
of our event walk through and what we envision.
New Business: SL1314-24: ASG Campaign Guidelines for Residential
Emailing
• Chris: I am bringing forth an addition to the election guidelines. I
know we already reviewed them, but I wanted to make sure all
relevant parties were aware. So I am here with EriK Zorn the RHA
President. There was a lot of tension last year with campaign emails
over the list servs in the 29 undergraduate housing options. So, if
you choose to send out emails, you have to follow these guidelines.
• Erik: These guidelines are beneficial because all governments have
different guidelines for list servs, and these guidelines are
amendable to that. And because these would be apart of the EC,
complaints could go to the Election Commission instead of the hall
governments.
• Chris: So if a candidate wants to send out campaign list servs, the
hall can choose to send out 4. We got to 4 due to talking with
previous candidates. A single person will be designated to send it
out. With endorsements, this places the burden on the campaign.
So for example, if Eric was president of Chapin, he has to reach out
to the campaign for them to advertise the endorsement.
• Harrison: So what is the structure on who gets punished?
• Chris: It depends. For example, if someone sends over 4 emails,
that is up to the EC to give a punishment to the candidate. If it is a
RHA/RCB’s fault, the government can deal with it. And, residential
services has been notified.
• Dana: Have these been put in the RHA/RCB codes?
• Chris: No
• Nikki: Can the EC elect someone to send out the emails?
• Chris: Yes the EC could allocate it like that, but it is up to them.
• Parag: What if the President for example forgets to send out the
email. That would be up to RHA/RCB to deal with.
• Serene: How will you make sure the RHA/RCB will stick with this in
the future?
•

Chris: That is always a challenge. They didn’t have my role of
Director of Residential Services before last year, so it is important
to keep up communications through this role.
• Erik: Also we have designated ASG people in RHA/RCB.
Good of the Order & Announcements
• Jenny: I am selling friendship bracelets for DM for $3.
• Isaac: Community Grant, if you want to help with selection, let me
know
• Amakie: NCE’s largest gospel concert is Sunday at 9pm.
• Alex: Go to the athletic event!
• Ani: DM dinner. We are serving the DM dancers dinner at 8pm
Roll Call and Adjournment
•

