Senate 1/29/2014

4/11/14 7:46 PM

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
• Katie: Go to caucus.
• Abby: Keep Katie and me in the loop as well on attendance in
caucus.
• Ani: WE are working with the Greek councils to incorporate QPR
into new member training. Ask me questions on mental help.
• Alex: We narrowed down 10K ideas to 60 ideas and we our
crunching numbers. We are also looking at data from the survey.
WE are hoping to have the numbers good to go on Sunday or near
there and then start meeting with admin. I am also working with
Josh McKenzie on Year 1 ideas for freshman.
• David: None
• Anna: We have 3 spots for admin/faculty to follow you around for a
day. Also, we have some spots to test Tap Ride if you want to work
with that.
• Sofia: CTEC pilot in testing. Study Abroad board is launching a new
app. We are working on committee data analysis and other
projects. If you want to know more let me know.
• Kevin: Next week will have more information on project and maybe
guests. Housing Fair is this week. Share the event and tell your
friends-Friday 12-3pm 30 landlords coming. Aldermen coming to
visit.
• Julia: Check out the awesome PR Guide. We are getting great
feedback also from administration. Nominations for wildcat for the
week is starting today. A lot of projects are going on. All
administrators, 35 of them, agreed to do roundtables.
• Sub for Wes: Is working on a lot of projects.
• Thaddeus: No updates for right now.
Special Order: Dr. John Dunkle, Executive Director of CAPS
• [PRESENTATION]
• Jane: is the sports psychologist for just varsity athletes or all
athletes?

o JD: No all athletes. We do have others dedicated to athletes
as well.
• Thaddeus: What is the current demographic makeup of CAPS
faculty? Also, what are resources for low income students after their
allotted sessions run out.
o JD: We have gay lesbian, African America, American Asian,
those who speak Mandarin, Japanese, German, Spanish. We
also have a whole host of diversity in our resource center.
That is something I am always tuned into. Our session limits
are 3. We would like to expand that with more faculty,
however, we will never be able to offer continuous sessions.
We and our case manager, Tiffany Manley, works with
insurance and she works to make sure rates are affordable for
students. We also find access to funds if they are available for
students. We do refer to therapist off campus to those who
have a sliding scale for students. It also depends on the
issues and what expertise we have in-house as well. We also
work with parents a lot.
• Senator: What is the Emotional Intelligence course about?
o JD: There are a lot of studies that correlate emotional
intelligence to relationships, success, leadership. So we have
seen that a lot of students come in intelligent, but not
emotionally so. So it delves into those areas.
General Order: Student Group Assessment Working Group Presentation
• Lauren: Why would groups apply for ASG recognition.
• Tori: you can book for rooms in Norris. There isn’t a whole lot
associated with it. There is an added level of “prestige,” but it
doesn’t mean too much.
• Alex: Can you just add money to B-status groups.
• Tori: They would apply for the first time and because the pool is so
small, you might see that groups apply and don’t use the money.
• Serene: Can you get Northwestern to help cover security costs?
• Tori: A lot of times that is billed into labor and is based on the
number of attendants. It is harder to track though than things like
venues.
General Order: Election Guidelines Presentation

•

•

•

•

•

•

•
•

Alex: On non verbal campaigning, if someone hands out something
that is not associated with the campaign, like a personal business
card, is that a violation.
o Dana: I don’t think so, but we would address something like
that as a group.
Isaac: Why do you have two debates on the same day.
o Dana: We shortened the campaign period so those seem like
the days that made most sense.
Ani: Do you see having the debates so early to the start of non
verbal campaigning being an issue of not knowing the candidates?
o Dana: Not
o Mark: It is also on us for people to attend the debates.
Sarah: At what point can you start doing PR about the debates.
o Dana: any time. Just we can’t announce names of candidates
until the petitions are due.
David: Election day is current a Friday. Would you be willing to line
it up with a Wednesday to align it with Senate? I think it would
have better voter turnout and it would align more with campus
news cycles.
o Dana: The timeline is shortened and kept with the same start
date so that we are able to start as soon as we get back. We
could push it back. We can shorten the amount of time to get
signatures.
David: Would you add in that the names on the ballot be
randomized?
o Dana: I think that is already in the guidelines.
o David: Would you make sure that this happens?
o Dana: Yes we will work with Wildcat Connection to best make
sure this happens.
Senator: Why was the length of the campaign shortened.
o Dana: Campaign fatigue and
David: Would you consider previewing the ballot to Senate before
the election?
o Mark: Why?

o David: I think all the candidates would agree that the ballot
was terrible last year, and I think providing feedback would
help with that.
• Harrison: Last week, was verbal campaigning a thing last year too?
And was it a week too? And was petitions apart of that?
o Dana: Yes it was.
• Sarah: I have a question about non-verbal campaigning. It starts
on the 13th?
o Dana: Yes
• David: Would you consider making election violations public?
o Dana: We had a long discussion about this. I personally think
that is a bad idea. It is our job as a commission to figure out
and discuss violations as they come in. And it could be turned
into its own form of bad campaigning.
• Senator: What about exec endorsements?
o Dana: We are bringing it in as legislation formally next week.
• Ani: Can you shorten or combine petition signing?
o Mark: We would take up that time to introduce the candidates
as ASG.
o Dana: I would be open to amendments.
• Katie: If you have a change to propose you can just do it.
• Harrison: Can we make the non-verbal campaigning from the 6th18th?
• David: Can we make this a more formal process through
legislation?
• Alex: Motion to table changes to the guidelines until next week until
legislation is written.
• Isaac: So what is the timeline?
• Katie: This will be presented again next week as legislation and we
will vote on it then.
• Alex: Would you consider having office hours this week?
• Dana: Email me and we can meet.
Old Business: SL1314-13: Discover Islam Week: The Many Faces of
Feminism
• Speaker: We have a Muslim women event and how it further fits
into the world of women. We are engaging with other females

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•

•
•

•
•
•

outlets on campus to create strong discussion. We are having a
female professor come in and we have gotten her to lower her
price from $4000 to $2200 but we would still like to ask for $1500.
Our current budget is for the whole week and we are getting $1000
from various fundraising efforts and grants.
Grace: Will you have to take away from events if we didn’t fund the
money?
Speaker: We are looking to make this year’s event better than ever
so it would be difficult.
Jane: Is any funding dependent on ours? Like would us funding help
others fund you?
Author: It would go in our proposals for more money that you are a
sponsor so that might help.
Ani: Are you sure the president’s office will help?
Author: They have donated in the past.
Katie: Okay we are in line for debate. Con speech.
Isaac: I think there is an issue that we are having separating
expanding an event and making sure an event happen. Motion to
amend to change amount to $500.
Petros: Objection
Isaac: This is 1/10th of our project pool, and we shouldn’t give the
money for a new scope of an event that is already happening.
Petros: [pro speech] This is a high profile event on campus that
does reach a lot of people on campus. And this could be a great
event on campus.
Alex: PQ
[amendment fails]
Eliza: [pro speech] We have so many groups come in and ask for
money for new events. And we ask questions that she has
answered and reaching out to so many groups on campus that
could increase turnout. And they negotiated down group.
Lauren: Motion to amend amount to $1000. $500 is too little but
$1000 is too much.
Speaker: We should fund what they are asking for.
Lauren: I would say in light of last week, there are 500 reasons we
should not fund this.

•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Isaac: The amount was also lowered from $4000 to $2200.
Jamie: I think they are asking for the bare minimum that they can
afford and we should fund this.
Ani: You haven’t even spent half of the pool yet and we shouldn’t
think of how much is left in the pool or how much they are asking
but based on the merit of the event.
Isaac: I don’t think that applies here, we have a budget
Ani: Point of parliamentary procedure, Mega-Shabbat expressed
that they did not have need for the money, it was supplementary?
Abby: Yes, that is true.
Isaac: We have a budget and we should try to weary of that
regardless.
Sarah: We are not a budgeting body and we need to fund based on
merit.
Alex: PQ
o Steven: Objection
o Alex: I think all that needs to be said has been said.
o Steven: withdrawn
Alex: PQ
[amendment fails]
Jane: Motion, “If an excess of $2200 is raised, than that money
would be returned to the project pool.”
Isaac: What if the money is raised for the event as a whole?
Jane: It is money that would be earmarked for the speaker.
Senator: Objection
Jane: So if we are worried about the money in the pool, they can
raise the money it can be returned.
Petros: I don’t think it is up to a student group to return money to
the pool.
Alex: If you don’t want to give them the money just don’t vote on
it.
Senator: I think it is fair to say that if they can raise the money and
don’t need it that the money can go somewhere else.
Mike: I think this will help make the pool more sustainable. I think
we are only going to get more requests from here on out, so I
would like to make sure that the pool is sustainable.

Julia: McSA is raising money for many events for the week, so it
doesn’t make sense for them to give the money back.
• Eliza: I think groups giving back money is wrong. DM was a special
case. If we are choosing to fund an event, that is that.
• Mike: We want to promote a sustainable project pool. And this
event is great, but we are encouraging a complete deflation of the
pool. If you are not sure how much money you have because you
have money pending, we should get the money back.
• Senator: [to author] When money is raised, is it for a certain event
or for the week as a whole?
o Author: It is usually for all the events for the week.
• Serene: [con on amendment] They have reached out to
departments that they do every year. So they are not increasing
the amount, just the amount that they normally get. They are
trying to expand the event.
• Parag: It is not feasible for us to also have them track where
donations are going to.
• Alex: PQ
• Jane: Amendment withdrawn.
• Sarah: It is in the code with the way funding works.
• Katie: Okay we are line for a con speech.
• Isaac: For the future, we are at the number not because we are
great budgeters, but because we have doubled the amount. We
need to be more conservative with our spending.
• Lauren: There is a limited amount of money in the pool and a lot of
need for students for money for events, so we need to be careful on
how we spend the money.
• Katie: Okay we are out of time. We are moving to a vote.
[vote passes]
Old Business: SL1314-14: Polish Cultural Night
• Peter: I am PASA president and it has grown quite a bit on campus.
We have done a lot of events and collaborations not only with
students, but also in Chicago. We have a lot of excited work going
on internally. In the past, this event is held during the week at
Norris with one performance. I would like to expand this event to
show how we have grown as a group. I want to hold it on Polasky
•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

weekend to honor him. Many different performers are lined up to
come for the event and food will be provided during intermission.
The venue cost has been covered and other costs, but we are
asking for $650 for both performances
Parag: Have you approached any other department for support?
Peter: Career services but it is not in their budget.
Senator: Why the two performances?
Peter: the first is to show how young people born in America are
still proud of their culture and the other to express for a certain
ethnic group.
Senator: Attendance?
Peter: About 70
Senator: Can you have just one group not both?
Peter: They highlighted different needs.
Mike: Attendance in the past?
Peter: About 30 but we expect more because of the space and its
not on a week night.
Sarah: So if we fund $400 it would cover the dancing but we just
wouldn’t have a second performance?
Peter: Yes, I would just try to negotiate with them.
Mike: When is the event? And what PR efforts are you taking?
Peter: March 1st and we are using past PR material and efforts to
reach out to various Polish groups around Chicago as well as on
campus.
Mike: Why did you reach out to ASG?
Peter: Because the project pool exists for this purpose.
Serene: How are budgeting for PR?
Peter: Flyers aren’t that much money.
Katie: We are in line for debate.
Parag: Motion to amend to $400 to pay just for the dance group.
Senator: Objection
Parag: I think this is a great event, and I think you haven’t
exhausted your options to get money elsewhere.
Serene: I don’t think we are in line to mess with the line up of the
event. We don’t really know the Polish culture and what is okay to
cut.

Peter: WE have already agreed to certain amounts with the groups,
and I don’t want to have to go back and renegotiate due to the
professionalism of the group.
• Steven: We have the discretion to fund what we want on these
sorts of issues.
• Sofia: As a B-status group, this goes along with what Tori
expressed earlier. This shows our inefficiencies as a group of how
our funding works and we should fund something like this. The
nature of this example shows that the SAF was not able to fund the
whole event.
• Alex: PQ
[Division: 11, 22, 1 amendment fails]
• Senator: PQ
[vote passes]
New Business: SL1314-15: Ubu Roi Request
• Amy: I’m Amy and a junior. I am working on Ubu Roi which is the
debut performance of a new group Beg to Differ. The group is
comprised of only non-theater majors. The week is going up in a
week and a half. We are requesting $500 for the production.
• Adam: How long has your group been meeting?
• Amy: It began in the spring.
• Alex: Do you have a SOFO account?
• Amy: No we don’t because we are not University recognized.
• Alex: So how do you work with money?
• Amy: Right now it is a personal account. We would like to be a
university recognized group and ASG recognized but that hasn’t
happened yet.
• Chris: Can we allocate money to a group if they don’t have a SOFO
account.
• Ani: Yes we technically can.
• Ani: Can you even book the great room?
• Natalie: No unless you have insurance.
• Serene: Have you started the process to become T-status?
• Amy: not to my knowledge.
• Mike: What if I was a theater major and wanted to be in the
production?
•

Amy: We are working on that right now with the board. We don’t
want to exclude anyone.
• Senator: why haven’t you become university recognized?
• Amy: the whole theater vs. non-theater became a question, but we
are still working on it. We booked Jones as an individual.
Good of the Order & Announcements
• Ani: Thank you for funding the events today. We doubled the
money to help go around the flaws that Sofia mentioned earlier. By
funding things and using the money, we can go to the
administration and our own funding process.
• Parag: SASA show this Friday.
• Jenny: Pi Phi and SAE is having a food philanthropy at SAE. $5
wristbands and $7 at door.
• Sarah: DG lounge.
• Jamie: AEPi and Alpha Chi is hosting a food philanthropy. Proceeds
go to DM. $5 wristbands
• Kevin: Housing fair
• Anna: Let me know if you want to pilot Tap Ride or have faculty
follow you around.
Roll Call and Adjournment
•

