Senate 1/22/2014

4/11/14 7:44 PM

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
• Ani: We were at the University of Minnesota for Big 10 conference.
Talked a lot about issues that impact students. Also check out the
Playbook. It is 100s of projects across all the committees. Let us
know if anything is missing or needs elaborating.
o Kevin: To follow up on that, we are going to continue doing
lobbying work like that. We are in the Spring going to Capitol
Hill.
• Alex: Just look at my report.
Student Group Spotlight: Wildcat Welcome
Special Order: Todd Adams, Associate Vice President and Dean of Students
• Jane: How do you see it affecting student life day-to-day at
Northwestern?
• Todd: I think it begins right now. It means we need to get out the
word of what the changes are in the policy and talk about what
“consent” actually means. Much like any other policy at
Northwestern, it does not seem applicable to any student until an
situation arises. I am asking you all to not let it get that far. I am
asking you all to start having the discussion now. And not write it
legalistically, but I wanted this policy to be written in a way for all
of us to talk about this topic. This policy was made to implore you
all to go out and talk about this topic. The Topic 9 group is here to
talk about the policy as well. Sexual misconduct is the most underrepresented misconduct on college campus.
• Alex: Are there new avenues for students to report misconduct?
• Todd: At the beginning of the year, ASG actually helped us launch
NU Help that many students have reported misconducts online.
Also, the Northwestern police is here to report issues. The Topic 9
website is also available. So we have many avenues available to
report these problems. So we want people to know we don’t just
have this policy, but we want people to report these issues. Please
facilitate the conversations.
General Order: Election Commission Selection

•
•
•
•
•
•

•

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

Katie: Kevin, Harrison, and Petros have stepped down from the
Election Commission. Dana is our Commissioner
Senator: Shuyao
Harrison: Jonathan Campbell
Senator: Lauren Thomas
Mark: Mark Silberg
[all seconded and accepted]
Shuyao: I am a junior. I think this job would fit me really well. I am
a CA right now and I currently plan a lot of programs and I work for
the school so I understand the students. I also like elections and
would love to help supervise and help people.
Jonathan: I am a sophomore in Weinberg. Last year when I
attended the debate, I noticed everyone involved was in ASG. And I
think a new and outside perspective and input is really important to
obtain a wider outreach.
Lauren: I am a freshman in Weinberg. I would love to get involved
in the election process but not with a campaign. And because I am
a freshman, I don’t have too many relations formed within ASG so I
will not have a conflict of interest and I have a fresh take.
Mark: I am a senior in Weinberg. I have seen 3 elections in all their
glory and I think I have the perspective to make sure that
Jonathon: I was not involved in any campaign last year. I supported
a member in my fraternity-Aaron
Lauren: No involvement.
Mark: I have never been apart of campaign but I have given
endorsements.
Shuyao: No.
Dana: What are your time commitments for the rest of this quarter
and the beginning of next?
Lauren: Within ASG, I am involved in PLI, Academics committee,
and Senate and I am involved in some other things in campus.
Mark: I am graduating at the end of this quarter, so many of my
responsibilities are ending. I will be starting a job in the spring, but
I will dedicate my heart and soul to this campaign.
Shuyao: I have my CA duties but it is not too much of an issue. I
also join the Karate club every once in a while.

Jonathon: I am involved on campus, but I will have time for this. It
is just 2 weeks of the quarter.
[Election Winners: Mark, Shuyao, Lauren]
Old Business: SL1314-11: Code Changes? What Code Changes?
• Alex: I guess there’s not much else to say that wasn’t said last
week. These are just changes that should have been made already
and have not been updated.
• Ani: We learn every year why it’s important to have a flexible code.
• Harrison: Motion to previous question.
• Katie: Seeing no objections, all those in favor. Fabulous, that
passes unanimously.
[vote passes unanimously]
Old Business: SL1314-12: Mega-Shabbat
• Motion to move to the end of the agenda.
• Katie: We need 2/3.
• Katie: Great, we’ll move that down.
• Mia: Mega-Shabbat is a campus wide Shabbat dinner that takes
place in Alison dining hall. We have held it for the past 3 years. We
are looking to expand it further by adding family style food and
deeper table discussions. The event will happen either way, but we
would like to see student group support. We have received money
current FROM?????
• Isaac: did you receive money from the Project Pool in the past?
• Mia: yes the same amount
• Senator: who else have you gotten money from that is not Jewish
affiliated?
• Mia: The office of the president, the office of the provost, LOOK UP
• Eliza: Have you considered a larger venue.
• Mia: yes we have sold out in the past and sold out this year, but
that would be something that would be explored in later year..
There are 400 students signed up current.
• Isaac: What is your budget for the event?
• Mia: We have a private donor who is wiling to match our efforts. So
about $10,000.
• Isaac: so is someone matching the $200 or is someone else giving
it if we don’t.
•

Mia: Someone will match the $200. We are not in dire need for the
money, but we would love to see student group support.
• Katie: So we will move into debate period.
• Isaac: They have a huge budget and this is a drop in the bucket
and $200 could go much further in other groups.
• Jane: Motion to amend to change $200 to $150.
• Alex: Object. What is the difference, there is no budgetary
difference?
• Harrison: I agree that it is not a huge difference, but I think that it
is fine that it is lowered because we are showing support but saving
some money in the pool.
• Petros: I am going to echo Alex and say that it is not that much of
a difference.
• Noah: I think there are 50 reasons not to give the extra money.
• Alex: I think if you think 50 makes a difference, you should not be
voting in favor at all.
• Ani: I am sorry if I came across as sarcastic. But I think this is
more of a gesture of support, and Mega-Shabbat impacts and
touches such a large group of students on this campus. The money
amount is more just about what we feel comfortable giving.
• Katie: So we are in line to vote.
• [Division-22, 10, 1 amendment passes]
• Alex: Previous question
• Senator: 2nd
[vote passes]
New Business: SL1314-13: Discover Islam Week: The Many Faces of
Feminism
• Discover Islam Week is an annual Northwestern tradition. We
usually have a week of exciting events and previous topics we’ve
had have been civic engagement in the US, Guantanamo Bay, etc.
This year it will be Feb 24th – 28th. We have come to request
additional funding for two main reasons. The first is that we want to
better the quality of our events. We usually have two SAF funded
and two non-funded. Second, we want to be able to collaborate
with non-cultural groups and bridge that gap. Specifically, we are
requesting funds for a fireside to shed light on religion and the role
•

of women and how they are sometimes at odds. Our speaker’s bio
is in the legislation and we are trying to get her to make our event
of a high caliber. We have raised $1500 already and are currently
applying to cosponsor with the chaplain’s office. We are asking for
$1500 from the Senate Project Pool.
• Katie: Questions?
• Alex: You said this event has happened before? Why do you need
ASG funding?
• PARS: We want improve the caliber of this event we could use the
extra funding.
• Isaac: How many people think will attend?
• PARS: 60 or 70
• ????
• PARS: PHA, MGSC, and some other non cultural groups.
• Dillon: Why didn’t you come try to seek funds during our fall
amendment pool?
• PARS: I don’t really understand. This is newer addition to the event
so we came to Senate to get the money to fund it.
New Business: SL1314-14: Polish Cultural Night
• Alex: PASA is looking to expand their reach on campus and use
ASG funds to create a larger event. I am helping him out, so once
the actual author comes he can speak more to the details.
• Jane: Motion to move this bill to after the Shuttle Resolution.
• Senator: 2nd
[Vote passes]
• Peter: Hi, sorry I am a little late. Polish cultural night is an event
that PASA puts on campus each year in the winter. IN following
with PASA’s growth over the past year, we want to expand Polish
cultural night. We have had food and dancing and discussion that
probably was not as authentic as it could have been. This year we
want to tie it to Polasky day and make it bigger. We want to bring
in a dance group, a speaker and food. We really would like to see
these plans happen, but we need the funds.
• Alex: Has this event been going on for a while?
• Peter: I have only been able to track this event for the past 4
years.

Alex: and have you used ASG funding?
Peter: I believe just the SAFC funding.
Jane: How do you plan on attracting a larger community to come.
Peter: We are confident with our expansion and stronger visibility
that we will be able draw a larger audience.
• Jacob: What food are you looking to bring in?
• Peter: We are getting a deli to provide sandwiches, pastries and
dumplings.
• Senator: How much are you asking for again?
• Peter: Due to the two groups coming and out, so in total $650.
• Senator: How much is left in the Pool?
• Alex: $10,000, but that shouldn’t matter. You should approach each
event on its merit.
• Ronak: How many people have attended in the past?
• Peter: My freshman year about 30 people showed up.
New Business: SR1314-02: Increased Undergraduate Shuttle Services
• Hailey: this resolution is pretty self-explanatory. The transportation
office came to us wanted ASG support to show a student need to
expand the shuttle services. They do not have money to support
the need, and ASG support would help.
• Isaac: There are 2 current shuttles that run during the day, Ryan
Field and the intercampus. Both don’t cater to moving the
undergraduate students. The concept is to get more shuttles to
coordinate the 50 and hour when students are actually trying to run
in between classes.
• Petros: Would this help? Or would it overcrowd the shuttles
already?
• Hailey: Hopefully by adding more shuttles, it wouldn’t matter????
LOOK THIS UP.
• Petros: Would this cause traffic congestion to Evanston?
• Hailey: We are not far enough along to discuss that yet, but it
would be only 1 or 2 more additional day shuttles.
• Jane: would it be less redundant to just run the Evanston loop?
• Hailey: That has definitely been a discussed possibility. But the
transportation office said list whatever would be the best and most
supported plan by students.
•
•
•
•

Alex: when would we see this actually take place if it happens?
Isaac: This is in the budget for the fiscal year of 2015. Continue
push by students would help get it done and passed as soon as
possible.
• Alex: Would it help to move this to old business tonight?
• Ani: It wouldn’t hurt.
[motion passes]
• Senator: PQ
[resolution passes]
Good of the Order & Announcements
• Maddie: Dolphin show opens this weekend. It is Shrek.
• Steven: Come to the Stitch’s release party at Block museum.
• Eliza: B-fest is happening this weekend. It is a 24 hour movie
festival. Please come and for $5 students can watch a block of
movies.
• Jamie: A Chi O and AEPi are having a food fundraiser on the 3rd.
Please come, it’s $5 for a wristband.
• Katie: Thank you for the Senators that helped out at the activities
fair.
Roll Call and Adjournment
•
•

