Senate Minutes 5/21/2014
Wednesday, May 21, 2014

6:54 PM

Northwestern University
Associated Student Government
Meeting of the Senate
May 21, 2014
1. Call to Order and Roll Call
○ Senate called to order at approx. 7:18 PM.
2. Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
3. Executive Board Reports
4. General Order: Norris Focus Group
5. General Order: Election Commission
○ Amendment will be proposed that will eliminate Residential Senator Election

Commission and consolidate its duties under the Campus Wide Election
Commission.
6. General Order: Vice President of Analytics Confirmation: Grant Nicholas
○ Selection Committee presents Grant Nicholas as the nominee for Vice President of

Analytics.
○ Debate Period
 Endorsements given
□ Pro-1
□ Con-0
○ Previous Question
○ Grant Nicholas confirmed as the Vice President for Analytics for the 2014-2015

term.
7. Old Business: B-Status Funding
○ Cut Round 1
 No motions made to cut

Add Round
Senate Minutes Page 1

○ Add Round
 No motions made to add
○ Motion to Close Funding
 Passes
○ Funding closed.
8. New Business: Dorm is a 4-Letter Word: Reforming Residential Senator
○ Chris Harlow and Erik Zorn present authorship speech.
○ Q: Are there still elections?
○ A: Yes.

○ Q: Do RHA/RCB have a selection committee?
○ A: No, they will not.
○ Q: Do you see buildings with large populations overwhelming the districts and

leaving some smaller buildings with no Senators?
○ A: We will require office hours to hold office hours in a neutral location. We will work

with Speaker to ensure equal distribution of Senators.
○ Q: No names on ballot, correct? Would you be open to requiring buildings have at

least one Senator?
○ A: Correct. However, I believe that proposal goes against the spirit of the bill.
○ Q: Do you see problems with certain districts like Plex with Seabury?
○ A: No, because we see that district as similar in character. Also, it is hard to get

candidates from certain districts, so we are trying to ensure we do not turn down
qualified candidates.
○ Q: Why does PMA get a Senator?
○ A: We struck that from the legislation. It was a mistake.
○ Q: Question on proposed District 1? Do you see Elder dominating the district, and

winning all three seats?
○ A: I can say two things. We would envision all Senators working together to split up

the district and understanding the views of all of the residents. This model will allow
you to sit on Exec Boards and be in close proximity to constituents.
○ Q: Do you have any idea how you will make district elections work?
○ A: We would need to have that determined by the Election Commission.
○ Q: Current idea that ASG does not represent students. Do you feel that students,

especially in smaller houses, could buy into that idea and make this misconception
worse?
○ A: Current model, you do not feel a close connection because of the distance

between buildings on campus. This model would make representation easier, and
Senate Minutes Page 2

○

between buildings on campus. This model would make representation easier, and
allow for a closer affiliation with ASG.
○ Q: What do you mean by central location?
○ A: It needs to be somewhere that is easily accessible by all students. Cannot be areas

that require key access.
○ Q: Would you encourage rotation of Senators?
○ A: Yes, that would be a great idea.
○ Q: RCB vets their Senators. Unsure on RHA. What would be the role of RCB in this

model?
○ A: We don't see RCB as necessary to look over Senators, and we see that as an area

that should be handled by ASG.
○ Q: What would be the experience of Senators going over to other hall governments?
○ A: I would say issues that are affecting your specific building are not necessarily

things you would bring to Senate. Those issues are best articulated to RHA, RCB, or
the administration.
○ Motion to Extend Question Period by 2 Minutes
 Passes
○ Q: At the moment, everyone has one Senator. With this model, where people would

now have multiple Senators, do you see an issue with representation?
○ A: An informal division of labor could solve a lot of those options.
○ Q: Do you think moving elections to Spring would be better?
○ A: We see the benefits, but we do not see it as something that would work well,

especially for RHA.
9. New Business: CTECs Working Groups
○ Anna Rennich and Steven Bennett present authorship speech.
○ Q: Why do you need three separate groups?

○ A: We want a wide swath of people, and we think a very large committee would be

inefficient. It's already hard enough to get all administrators together.
○ Q: How will committees be split?
○ A: 50/50.
○ Q: Plan for forming these groups?
○ A: We will send out emails to listservs and already have faculty that want to be

involved. We have people on Academic Committee that are interested.
○ Point of Parliamentary Inquiry: Do working groups need to be elected right after

passing legislation?

Not according to the Code, no.
Senate Minutes Page 3

 Not according to the Code, no.
10. New Business: A-Status Funding
○ McKenzie Schneider presents the SAFC Funding Recommendation for A-Status

Groups for Spring 2014.
○ Q: I am really awful with Excel. I'm looking at NCDC's funding right now. It says, "The

requested amount is less than…"
○ A: SOPE says that groups get a certain amount of money, standardized for certain

items. This is why you can be allocated more than what you requested.
○ Q: Why is travel not funded for some groups? Is it standardized?

○ A: Not standardized. Groups prioritize their requests, which is why we fund certain

items over other items. In some cases, we did take rollbacks into consideration, that
way we can maximize efficiency and allow funds to be utilized most effectively.
○ Q: Why is the amount for A&O Blowout provided in two different values.
○ A: President provides a gift to move the event to a certain venue. [Confusion]
○ Q: Are all of these line items going to happen?
○ A: Groups place fake names, since they cannot release specific names for events until

contracts are released. Those are placeholders. Also, to clarify, SAFC does not give
funds for new events. They may ask for it in supplemental.
○ Q: Are groups not allowed to put names of speakers on applications?
○ A: Yeah those are place holders.
○ Q: Are you allowed to put the specific name, if that person is definitely being

pursued?
○ A: We do not recommend groups do that.
○ Q: Can groups speak about desire to bring certain people?
○ A: I recommend no, because your group can be open to liability and misconduct.

Names should not be released until contracts are set up.
○ Q: Does SAFC have standardized amounts?
○ A: Yes, it does. We do not fund food, programs, disposables, etc.

11. Good of the Order & Announcements
12. Roll Call and Adjournment
○ Senate adjourned at approx. 9:05 PM.

Presiding,
Noah Star
Speaker of the Senate
Senate Minutes Page 4

Speaker of the Senate

Journal Submitted for Approval,
Petros Karahalios
Parliamentarian

Senate Minutes Page 5

