Senate 1/15/2014

4/11/14 7:42 PM

Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
• Katie: None
• Abby: None.
• Ani: Read my exec board report. We are working on some really
cool projects. We are selecting the next One Book. It will deal with
stereotypes and identity
• Alex: Read report. Code review. We are going through 10K stuff.
• David: I will be graduating at the end of the year if anyone wants to
take over a twitter account
• Anna: we are putting together a professor/administrator shadowing
day. We are going to test it with ASG, so let me know if you are
interested.
• Kevin: Don’t have anything too exciting, check out our projects. WE
have an housing fair coming up.
• Noah: Over break, I got some new committee members, so I
included some details. We are looking at real time shuttle app
tracking. Also, a web based app contest with students. Sign up to
interview for study abroad app
• Julia: We are bringing back round tables because you all said you
don’t have too much time with administration. Thank you for taking
the survey and passing it along.
• Wes: Read my exec board report.
Special Order: Dr. Julie Payne-Kirchmeier, Assistant Vice President for
Student Auxiliary Services, and Bernie Foster, SafeRide Coordinator
• David: What is the logic behind not picking up from a bar or a place
serving alcohol? The logic seems a little counterintuitive.
• Bernie: SafeRide was created for safe transport. So if you choose to
go out and drink, we suspect you have already found a safe right
home. We also don’t have the right to stop in the street in Evanston
to pick someone up, we are not a cab service. We don’t want to
hurt relations with Evanston.
• Julie: If we also pick up this students and act as a cab company, we
don’t have procedures to follow like they would in cab. If someone
chooses to act like a fool, we aren’t prepared to handle the
situations?

•
•
•
•
•

•

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Alex: Is this student run?
Julie: No it is professionally run.
Alex: How will this affect us financially?
Julie: It will be a sink. We will break even. We can also adjust
accordingly if we happens that we are losing money.
Bernie: Also, our biggest issue has been wait time. We have such a
surplus of students waiting, especially in the cold weather like this,
and this could help alleviate the issues we are most currently
facing.
Grace: Yesterday, I wanted to take SafeRide and they said it was
an hour and 10 minutes so I ended up walking. So with this
system, is there a way to tell them that you do not want the ride?
Bernie: You will be able to get in contact with your driver and you
can look up wait times via twitter and Facebook. Our dispatchers
will also be arranged for group pickup and coordination.
Serene: Why is the max 3 passengers?
Bernie: Because statistics say that walking with 3 or more people is
safe walking.
Serene: A lot of times in that situation is that the group calls 2
SafeRides.
Bernie: Then we would look like a cab company and Evanston will
start asking questions.
Serene: And the drivers will still be students?
Bernie: Saferide is all students except for me. And we will continue
to probably have 2 dispatchers.
Julie: You can contact me or Bernie with any further questions. The
main takeaway is that we want to make sure we are doing what the
students want, coming from our initial meeting with ASG 2 years
ago. We may contact you to help out with testing with the new app.
o Norris Food Issues:
Dinner at Norris- limited options
Long lines at Subway**
! not enough workers, particularly at dinner time
Concern about Frontera-particularly price
Subway-has good vegetarian options

Frontera-yogurt station not used very much-maybe put
something else there
Subway specials aren’t very well advertised- January special
! They can’t have all the special
Missing some options at Subway-particularly veggie options
o Starbucks Refresh:
Tables should be put back
Baked goods are better
Employees are great
Computers moved- now on ground floor
Dunkin Donut is Coming:
No espresso drinks
will be placed at end of Frontera where yogurt currently lies
coffee, sandwiches, and donuts
General Order: Election Commission Selection
• Katie: We will now open the floor for nominations.
• Harrison: I nominate Adam Roth.
• Adam: I respectfully deny.
• Grace: I nominate Harrison.
• Harrison: I accept
• Harrison: I nominate grace.
• Grace: I accept.
• I nominate Kevin Harris
• Kevin: I accept
• Kevin: I nominate Chris Harlow.
• Chris: I accept.
• Harrison: I nominate Alec.
• Alec: I accept.
• Petros: I nominate myself.
• Senator: I nominate Nikki.
• Nikki: I accept.
• Dana: I nominate myself.
• Kevin: I nominate David.

•
•
•

•
•
•

•

•

•

•
•
•

•

•
•
•

David: I would literally rather run again.
Chris: I would like to remove my nomination.
David: I was kidding. Seriously consider running. It is a great way
to quickly immerse yourself in the structure of ASG and what is
going on.
Chris: I would like to re-nominate myself.
Katie: Go down the line and introduce yourself.
Harrison: I am the Kemper senator. I am interested in being on the
election commission. I was apart of the elections last year, and I
think it would be cool to sit on it. And having ran, I think I would
bring a good perspective.
Grace: I am a freshman studying econ and bio. I am apart of the
RHA/RCB caucus. I am on Rules so I think I would be good on this
committee. I would also have fresh eyes on something like this
Kevin: I am the CRVP. I am the only non-Senator up here, so that
is cool. I helped out on the campaign a lot last year. I am a poly sci
major so I am very interested in the election process and how it
works.
Alec: I am the Sargent senator, but I live in Elder. I would like to
get more involved. I don’t’ like taking sides so being impartial
would be cool
Petros: I am the student groups caucus whip. I was on the
committee last year and I am currently on Rules
Nikki: I am the Bobb senator. I am a freshman so I would also have
fresh eyes, and I would like to get more involved.
Dana: I am junior and I am a student groups senator. I served on
the election commission last year, and I really enjoyed it. I like
serving as a resource for the candidates. I enjoyed being able to
explain the guidelines and help out the candidates to avoid
violations.
Chris: I am an RHA/RCB senator. I was on a campaign last year,
and I would like to hear that side. Last year, I saw a lot of things
handled inappropriately
Katie: Questions
Evan: Time commitments?
Grace: ASG

•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•

•

Kevin: I would never want to over apply myself.
Alec: ASG is my biggest commitment. I am also in Wildcats for
Israel
Petros: My only commitment is ASG. Also all my classes are on
Tues and Thurs this quarter.
Nikki: ASG is my biggest commitment. I am on Sustainability
committee.
Dana: I am a Senator, on Rules, I am in a services fraternity, I am
on the exec board of my sorority. I was all of these last year as well
and it wasn’t an issue.
Chris: I am busy as well. I am on PLI, Lend, DM. DM and the new
member class will be over anyway.
Harrison: My biggest time commitment is ASG and I am pledging. I
am also the treasurer for NUSPAN. But I have a time
Alex: Do any of you live off campus?
[Only Dana]
Adam: What would you want to do on this committee, what are you
motivations?
Kevin: I would pick the brain of prior member. I am also very
interested in the democratic process.
Alec: I would also seek the advice of the previous election
commissions.
Petros: I had a great time on the committee last year and I really
like organizing the future of ASG last year. I liked being involved an
moderating the debates.
Nikki: It is one of the most crucial parts of this organization and I
would love to be apart of that.
Dana: I would want to help and foster great and fair campaigns. It
is a great balance of acting as a resource and disciplinary body.
Chris: On a similar not, a great deal was changed in the guidelines
last year. Some problems were also ironed out after last year. I
would also like to make sure those are actually enforced.
Harrison: I was the only person up here that ran last year. There
were some unspoken things that went on last year, and I would
want to bring that to the attention of the EC this year.

Grace: I would want to bring my new perspective this year. And I
would not be biased.
• David: So, last year there was a perceived problem of interest.
Disciplining people you would be working with. I was wondering if
you would state your interest in running for Speaker and
Parliamentarian.
• Alec: I would hope that the candidates would understand our
decisions.
• Petros: as of now, no. And if I did, I would immediately resign.
• Nikki: I have no immediate plans to run. I also agree it would be a
conflict of interest.
• Dana: As of this moment, I am not planning. I, however, don’t
think it is too much of an issue.
• Chris: I have no intentions as of now, but if that changes I would
excuse myself.
• Harrison: No I don’t have the intention of running. Restate rule
• Grace: No
[Election winners: Dana, Kevin, Grace, Harrison, Alec, Nikki, Petros]
General Order: Rules Committee Election
• Katie: Any nominations for the rules committee?
• Lauren: I nominate Adam Roth.
• Adam: I respectfully decline.
• Ani: I nominate Korri.
• Second
• Korri: I accept.
• Korri: Hi I’m majoring in biomedical engineering and I’m interested
in rules because I want to get to know ASG better. I’d be really
excited to take it on as a new learning experience.
• Motion to white ballot
• Second
• Katie: All those in favor. Great!
Old Business: SL1314-07: Hoop for Haiyan
• Ani: Motion to table indefinitely?
• Senator: Second
•

Katie: The event is no longer happening at Northwestern. He is
hosting a similar event in his home town, but it will not be
happening here. All those in favor of tabling indefinitely? Great.
Old Business: SL1314-09: Body Acceptance Week Speaker (B.A.W.S.)
• Ani: It’s a really cool event and they are doing better and better
things every year. This year there will be yoga and nutrition
sessions and a keynote speaker. This bill is asking for $200 for the
keynote speaker and it’s a cool way for ASG to continue it’s Free
Your Mind initiative and support our partners in the administration.
• Katie: 10 min for questions.
• Lauren: Are you asking for money because it’s needed or because
we’re supporting it?
• Ani: Funding is coming from a lot of places and they have not yet
signed the contract. Could they get it elsewhere? Yes, but that
money couldn’t go to something else.
• Katie: Seeing no further questions, we’ll move onto debate.
• Motion to previous question.
• Katie: Seeing no objections, all those in favor please say aye.
Great, that passes. $200 for body acceptance week.
Old Business: SL1314-10: Reducing Bureaucracy, One Position at a Time
• Alex: This legislation is to escalate the AVPs to VP level and
eliminate the bureaucracy that we had before. We believe that
there is a significant amount of overlap with what they do in other
areas of ASG besides student life. With them being part of the
cabinet it makes the selection process streamline. It also gives
them more legitimacy because they don’t have to explain
themselves.
• Senator: ???
• Alex: We have been treating them like VPs. So in practice this
wouldn’t change anything but there titles.
• Katie: Any other questions?
• Alex: This may be outside of scope of the bill. But we have a lot of
VPs don’t we?
• Alex: I think it adequately covers the aspects of campus.
• Petros: what about in comparison to other COPHE schools?
•

Alex: We have more, but I think we are more effective. It is not
really a fair comparison.
• Katie: Okay, we are moving to debate.
• Ani: motion to amend.
• Alex: I sent you the amendment. [to Katie] It changes the wording
of SustainNU to Office of Sustainability, but mostly regarding the
Code. WE are also more explicit then in what they cover in terms of
sustainability. [Katie reads amendment changes.] We pretty much
just made it more explicit. We also matched it for AVP for D&I.
• Katie: Any questions? Okay, then we would vote as a whole on the
amendment. All in favor? All opposed? All abstaining?
[amendment passes]
• Senator: Motion to PQ
• Katie: any objections. Okay we will move to a vote.
[vote passes]
New Business: SL1314-11: Code Changes? What Code Changes?
• Alex: Over the summer, we looked at the Code and various things
we want to change. It is mostly broken down into 3 parts. We
added information for the alternate process, added good faith for
senators applying to committees, saying VPs and AVPs can’t be
senators or caucus whips, some inconsistencies with the
Constitutions.
• Mark: I was curious about the in good faith. What does that mean?
• Ani: Not all senators have to apply to be on a committee, so in past
years many senators have not taken the application seriously. So
adding in good faith means that they need to take the application
process seriously.
• Alex: We also clarified the interactions between CR committee and
off-campus. We set a timeline for the student groups apportionment
committee and some details about how it works. Also, we clarified
the student athletic senator seat. We added that Speaker can
recommend exec members for censure during Senate. We clarified
with senior members on serving on selection committee and what
“the most senior” actually means. Appointments to university
committees were more centralized. We clarified the cabinet
•

selection process when the Chief of Staff is running. Also “closed
committee” for the cabinet selection process was defined.
• Ani: However, the Senate has the tool that they can choose to
make the process completely open.
• Alex: We also created a process if someone is not confirmed for the
Cabinet. Sorry this is a lot. This also needs to be confirmed by 2/3
of Senate.
• Ani: We have never had an RHA or RCB liaison. So we made the
caucus whip of RHA/RCB the liaison. We also adjusted some
inconsistencies. We also reexamined the ad-hoc committees, how
they were formed, what they are accountable for. Our advisors
would also be on the judicial board with the Chief of Justice, which
is another part of the Parliamentarian’s role.
• Alex: This is the structural stuff. We want to append some of the
documents we have lying around to the end of the Code. We would
also moved the committee outlines to after the VPs are defined. WE
also created a new title for all the committees and commissions. We
now have so many standing, working, university and other
committees to make them more defined. We also switched “dorm”
to “residential.” We also restructured the VP names to match the
universities.
• Alex: Of these decisions, what was the most controversial when
going through them?
• Alex: I think the one that took the most thought was the Cabinet
selection committee.
• Ani: There was a lot of “what-if” situations that we has to deal with.
The closed committee aspect was for the privacy of the candidates
and took some thought.
• Katie: Any further questions? Okay this will be Old Business next
week.
New Business: SL1314-12: Mega-Shabbat
• Adam: I am not on Mega-Shabbat, but I am here to introduce it for
my friend who is co-chair. I will be reading a blurb that he
provided. GET BLURB FROM ADAM.
• Katie: Any questions? The author isn’t here.
• Senator: When is the

Sarah: The bill said a $200 donation, but the speech said $200 and
$75 for publicity?
• Katie: That would have to be an amendment next week.
• Jamie: It is funded through Hillel, but it normally gets publicity
funding through ASG in its standard tiered amount.
Good of the Order & Announcements
• Abby: Please
• Jamie: PA applications go live tomorrow. Yay! Apply!
Roll Call and Adjournment
•

