Senate 11/13/2013

3/5/14 8:59 AM

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
• Katie: Read the agenda emails each week. Important information is
in the agenda. Other exciting things-read them. No Senate before
• Abby: Have a wonderful week.
• Ani: PLI apps are due tomorrow. Please apply! Some have been
recommended but all can apply. In regards to the two student
deaths, we have been talking with Todd Adams and there will be a
more private ceremony for Alexis Lasker tomorrow. If you would
like to go, please let me know.
• Alex: 10K is launching next week. I challenge you to come up some
great ideas. Maybe a wildcat statue? We really want over 200 ideas.
We got 190 submissions this year, minus the 300 for mental health.
Therapy dogs legislation this week.
• David: I will have more soon on Senate reform stuff. If you signed
up to be a mentee, you will be hearing from your mentor soon.
• Sophia: Blackboards is being hopefully phased out with Canvas.
Working on study abroad stuff, student teacher interaction grant
• Kevin: housing fair will be much bigger this year. 22nd of November
is the Downtown Evanston bash. If your student group wants to
perform, let us know. We made progress on using wildcards in
Evanston. May be piloted in spring and implemented in fall. Let me
know you have any issues with crosswalks.
• Siddiq: We will be having A-status supplementary funding next
week.
• Neel: None
• Sheng: My committee members are working happily away on study
abroad guide and unofficial guide.
• Julia: Please again apply for student teacher interaction grant. Also
apply for D&I. And lastly, please check out the greater than
• Wes: A lot of meetings going on. We also met with SGC about a
green rated system
Special Order: Senate Reform Focus Groups
• David: Thanks for your patience on this. We are going to have
preliminary discussion on Senate.

o What assets do you identify in the current structure?
o What are the problems you identify with the current
structure?
o What solutions do you recommend?
If you have anything you want to say, this is the time to say it. We
will take this data and organize it in an open forum for all students
to get more feedback. Then we will come back with plans. Caucus
whips will be leading these discussions, but you will not be with
your caucus. We want you to disaffiliate yourselves from your
caucus, but don’t worry you are not voting on anything today.
• Katie: I will call out groups. Please stay in the area. Also, caucus
groups take notes please.
• Katie: Please send in your responses to David. And we have a new
Senator Megan. Please introduce yourself Megan.
• Megan: Hi my name is Megan, and I am replacing McKenzie as a
PHA Senator.
Old Business: B and T-Status Funding
• Katie: We will start with a cut round. Sheng will you please start
with an amendment pool of $500?
o Purple Crayon Players
o Comedy Forum
o Applause for a Cause
o Bhangra
o Project SOAR
o PASA
o Sit and Spin
o Flipside
o Rotaract
o Undertones
o No Strangers to Fiction
o ReFresh
o Photography Club
o Outing Club
o Extreme Measures
o China Foresee
o CASE

o Happiness Club
o Deeva
o Anubhav
o NUWFA
o Anime Club
o SSDP
o Zen Society
o Japan Club
o China Care
o SCNO
o Asterik
o Dance Marathon
o Students for Justice in Palestine
o BLAST
o Autism Speaks
o OM-Hindu Cultural Council
o Roosevelt Institute
o Turkish Student Association
o Treblemakers
o F&F Marketing
o NOM
o Studio 22
o CISA
o ISA World Cup
o Jewish Theatre Ensemble
o Freshman 15
o X-Factors
o Tonik Tap
o ISA
o Campus Kitchens
o Significant Others
o Spectrum
o Camp Kesem
Okay now we will go into an add round. If you want to add funding,
please motion to do so.
o Purple Crayon Players

o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

Comedy Forum
Applause for a Cause
Bhangra
Project SOAR
PASA
Sit and Spin
Flipside
Rotaract
Undertones
No Strangers to Fiction
ReFresh
Photography Club
Outing Club
Extreme Measures
China Foresee
CASE
Happiness Club
Deeva
Anubhav
NUWFA
Anime Club
SSDP
Zen Society
Japan Club
China Care
SCNO
Asterik
Dance Marathon
Students for Justice in Palestine
BLAST
Autism Speaks
OM-Hindu Cultural Council
Roosevelt Institute
Turkish Student Association
Treblemakers
F&F Marketing

o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

NOM
Studio 22
CISA
ISA World Cup
Jewish Theatre Ensemble
Freshman 15
X-Factors
Tonik Tap
ISA
! Michael: I am president of ISA. ISA applied for funding
for $450 for the annual winter formal. I was surprised
when we received no funding for this. Last year we
were funded. The event attracts 200 students and two
security guards are needed $300 is needed for space
and safety, and $150 for lights and sounds
! GE: We didn’t give funding due to lack of funding. We
didn’t see this as a priority due to lowered attendance.
! Neel: Also, we are only
! Michael: We moved an event from fall to winter, and
that’s why we had 2 events in the same quarter.
! Alex: What do you mean by lack of attendance?
! GE: I didn’t feel like there was a large attendance last
year at the formal. It felt very empty. That is why we
are pushing for funding for the festival instead of
formal.
! Dana: How much is being asked for?
! Michael: For $450
! Isaac: How much were tickets last year, and how much
will they be this year if we do not fund this?
! Michael: Last year $19 and that covered venue costs
mostly. So it is hard to say. Probably about $20.
! Evan: Are formals normally funded?
! GE: It depends on what other programming the group
is doing. And if the formal is open to the entire campus.
The ISA formal is open and publicized to all, but it is

mostly international students that turn out. Which is
why the food and film festival was funded.
! Michael: We sold last year around 200 tickets.
! Siddiq: Where is the venue?
! Michael: The Hilton garden Inn or the Orrington?
! Petros: Have you looked for a cheaper venue?
! Michael: The Hilton was cutting costs.
! Ronak: why don’t you just raise tickets prices?
! Michael: We want to keep it as cheap as possible.
! Harrison: What happens if you don’t get this funding?
! Michael: We will raise ticket prices
! Parag: Do you think there will be decrease in
attendance if the ticket prices are raised?
! Michael: Yes
! Katie: We will now move to a con speech.
! Harrison: I motion to amend the funding request to
$300 for security guards.
! Senator: 2nd
! Katie: We will move to a vote.
[Passes]
! Harrison: I think this is in line with what SGC does. And
I would like to see this event go on.
! Katie: Con speech?
! GE: We normally don’t fund events off campus
! Isaac: Didn’t you fund it last year?
! Neel: We had a surplus, so it was lowest priority but we
did.
! Katie: We are in line for a con speech.
! Alex: I don’t think it is fair to fund only a couple groups
for 2 events. We need to do it for all groups, not just a
couple.
! Katie: We will move to a vote.
[Division; 17, 4,0]
The motion passes.
o Campus Kitchens
o Significant Others

o
o
Okay
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

Spectrum
Camp Kesem
now we will go into our second cut round
Purple Crayon Players
Comedy Forum
Applause for a Cause
Bhangra
Project SOAR
PASA
Sit and Spin
Flipside
Rotaract
Undertones
No Strangers to Fiction
ReFresh
Photography Club
Outing Club
Extreme Measures
China Foresee
CASE
Happiness Club
Deeva
Anubhav
NUWFA
Anime Club
SSDP
Zen Society
Japan Club
China Care
SCNO
Asterik
Dance Marathon
Students for Justice in Palestine
BLAST
Autism Speaks
OM-Hindu Cultural Council

o Roosevelt Institute
o Turkish Student Association
o Treblemakers
o F&F Marketing
o NOM
o Studio 22
o CISA
o ISA World Cup
o Jewish Theatre Ensemble
o Freshman 15
o X-Factors
o Tonik Tap
o ISA
o Campus Kitchens
o Significant Others
o Spectrum
o Camp Kesem
Okay now we will go into our 2nd add round. This is our last round,
unless someone has strong reasons to do a cut round.
o Purple Crayon Players
o Comedy Forum
o Applause for a Cause
o Bhangra
o Project SOAR
o PASA
o Sit and Spin
o Flipside
o Rotaract
o Undertones
o No Strangers to Fiction
o ReFresh
o Photography Club
o Outing Club
o Extreme Measures
o China Foresee
o CASE

o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

Happiness Club
Deeva
Anubhav
NUWFA
Anime Club
SSDP
Zen Society
Japan Club
China Care
SCNO
Asterik
Dance Marathon
! David: Motion to add $200 to the line item tents.
! Katie: Okay come up and explain what the line item is.
! David: Two years ago we received $2000 and last year
we did not apply. To be honest, we were kind of
confused. We understand that ASG can’t fund DM. We
are kind of the status of an A-Status group but we can’t
forgo the money from revenue back to the SAF.
! GE: Why didn’t you apply for funding last year.
! David: It was a miscommunication on our part.
! GE: How did you manage if you didn’t have that
money?
! David: we kind of just made do. ASG gives very little to
DM so we have to find other ways. I am being very
transparent here. DM will go on if we don’t get this
money. We requested much more money than we were
allocated.
! Neel: So the $14,000 surplus. We had an $8000 deficit,
so we really only have a $6000 surplus. We want to try
to save as much for spring funding. Also DM is a highly
functioning group. We try to only fund groups that will
not be able to do funding for groups whose
programming would not otherwise go on.
! Isaac: This is going to seem irrelevant, but I will make
it seem relevant. When you asked for the $4000, you

!
!
!
!
!

!
!
!
!

!
!
!
!
!
!

!

said you couldn’t extend the deadline for registration
and then you did.
David: I pushed it to extend the deadline because I
thought we really should
Isaac: did that have any repercussions?
David: not any major ones?
Sarah: where is the money going to and why is it
important?
David: the tent is kind of arbitrary, but it is our biggest
costs. The tent is a fixed cost, and gets higher each
year as we get more participants. DM will go on no
matter what, but DM has to be more financially tight
than I had ever really expected.
Sarah: Sorry I think you misinterpreted the question. I
just want you to clarify for freshman.
David: Oh, sorry. The tent is put on the east lawn of
Norris and where hold the entire event each year.
GE: Why $200?
David: Because that’s how much we have left. I thought
we would have a bigger amendment pool. So, I am
asking for what is there.
GE: So where would the money go?
David: if it is allocated to the tent, it will go to the tent.
Harrison: why did you not ask for this in the first add
round.
David: It should go to a group first if a programming
event for them would not go on.
Katie: we are in line for a pro speech.
David: If you had an unlimited budget, think about
what sort of programming would you spend money on.
Students put more hours in to DM than any other event
on campus. We receive money 10 fold, 100 fold times
smaller than any other group on campus. Therefore, I
think
Katie: con speech?

!

!
!
!
!

!
!

!

!
!
!
!

!

!

!

Alex: I love DM as much as anyone else. But this is
pretty blatant that this we would like how much money
you all have left. There are a lot of events that aren’t
going on because of lack of funding, and DM must do
that too.
Petros: I agree with everything Alex said. In addition,
we should follow the recommendations of
Katie: Pro speech?
Parag: DM is one of the most uniting events on campus.
Eliza: as David said, DM brings in a huge amount of
people. And as a Winter event, we should fund this
now.
Katie: Con speech?
Isaac: Last time you came in, we had to move
something immediately to old business, even though
you ended up moving the date. So, I am very unwilling
to fund this amount.
Ronak: As David said, DM will go on. Have the money
go to an event that will not go on if we do not give
them this money.
Katie: pro?
Harrison: If the money is there for us to use and they
could use it, we should grant DM the money.
Dillon: We should not hold grudges against DM due to
what has happened in the past.
David: We did not extend, we pushed back. If we
misled you, I am so sorry but that is not relevant to this
conversation.
GE: I want you to know that by granting this money,
you are taking it away from another group. DM will still
go on with this funding, but other programming will not.
GE: I understand DM is a special case, but we have
standards that we must follow. Precedent is very
important for us and must be followed.
Katie: We are in line with a pro.

David: I don’t disagree with anything that has been said
in the con speeches. I appreciate the standards that
SGC follows, but I also appreciate that Senate does not
have to follow the standards. Just because some
groups, this money will impact them more greatly, but
DM needs money as well. As Petros mentioned, DM
does not really fit into the status roles. This is a special
case that does not really set a precedence. Like with
NCDC and funding candy, it’s breaking the rules, but we
do it anyway.
! Senator: PQ
! Senator: 2nd
! Katie: Okay will move to a vote.
[Division: 20, 9, 0]
[Passes]
Students for Justice in Palestine
BLAST
Autism Speaks
OM-Hindu Cultural Council
Roosevelt Institute
Turkish Student Association
Treblemakers
F&F Marketing
NOM
Studio 22
CISA
ISA World Cup
Jewish Theatre Ensemble
Freshman 15
X-Factors
Tonik Tap
ISA
Campus Kitchens
Significant Others
Spectrum
Camp Kesem
!

o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

New Business: A-Status Funding
• Katie: Next week will be doing the same thing only with A-Status
groups. Thanks to SGC.
• Siddiq: Stay tuned. If you want more information on student
groups, please contact me.
• Petros: Are you going to send it out?
• Siddiq: Yes we will.
New Business: SL1314-04: Northwestern Crew New Boat
• Katie: Anyone here for the SL1314-04?
• Alex: Motion to table for a week.
• Senator: 2nd
• Katie: okay we will move to a vote.
[Passes]
New Business: SL1314-05: $hining a Light on $tudent Activities: An
Assessment of Support for Student Groups
• Sophia: We are asking to create a working group. I thought a lot
about the framework. Student groups are a huge apart of
Northwestern. This working group is to examine that culture. NU is
being looked at to be increased. We want this working group to
examine how the money is being spent and the transparency of it.
We are spelling out a really loose structure, but that is on purpose
so that no one is hypothesizing anything up front. The reason I am,
as AVP am speaking on this, is because there are programming and
academic spaces on campus. And a lot of groups choose to practice
in academic spaces, which I am more proficient on the workings of.
The working group will be overseen by me, Siddiq, and Neel. We
are not there to run the group, but to guide the group. The group
will be made up of SGC, SAFC, Academic and greater NU students.
• Ronak: have you thought about adding a space for a student group
senator?
• Sophia: The NU students can be SG Senators
• Sarah: Will the group be confirmed by Senate?
• Sophia: Yes
New Business: SL1314-06: Dog Therapy Benefitting Northwestern Relay
for Life

Alex: We confirmed the contract with the therapy dogs today, but
we need $50 for Northwestern to be named on Rainbow Therapy
Dog’s insurance. The $100 is a suggested donation fee. Relay For
Life wanted to pair with us as a fundraiser. So if we get the money
for the suggested donation, all other donations will go to Relay For
Life.
• Evan: Since we don’t normally fund donations, can we say that if
we raise $100, that we can get it back?
• Alex: We could not have given them any money last year, but they
probably wouldn’t have come back.
• Dana: Just to clarify, the $150 covers all costs for the event?
• Alex: yes
• Chris: How many people came last year?
• Alex: Over 500 students in two hours. And it was great PR.
• Petros: When was it last year?
• Alex: The Saturday between Reading and Finals week.
• Alex: Will there be fluffy dogs with waggy tails?
• Alex: Yes, and there will be hopefully 2 shifts of dogs?
• Chris: Last year, it was advertised at puppies and it wasn’t.
• Alex: sorry that was PR not me.
• Ani: POI-Can’t bring puppies, because puppies are too fragile.
Good of the Order & Announcements
• Ani: We are handing out member t-shirts tonight. As Abby calls roll,
come up and tell us your name and you can get your shirts.
• Petros: It is transgender awareness week. Next week, there is a
vigil happening, but it is during Senate so you can’t go.
• David: DM trivia t 9pm if you want to come.
o Steven: Hey I am in Stitch and we have fundraiser at Unicorn
this weekend.
• Anna: Exam relief will be happening and we are pairing with the
library. Come to Fitzerland.
• Elena: Thank you all for participating in the moment of silence
earlier.
Roll Call and Adjournment
•

