Senate 2/5/2014
•
•
•

4/11/14 8:25 PM

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
o Ani: Read report. Today was really cool. Alex and I are about of
the committee that will create with art center. We have
narrowed down to a few architects who will then come in and
engage us about what we are looking for in the building.
o Alex: Sorry about not having the Community Engagement Grant
Presentation. We are still pursuing it though. The opportunity for
it will be really cool. Kevin and I are also planning the NU Kids in
Chicago Day. IT will have different tracks that kids can explore
for the day. Rob will come very briefly
o Katie: None
o Abby: None
o David: Important announce, especially for Student group
senators. The apportionment committee for allocating student
groups are live tonight. The process will work the same, minus
one caveat. If you are currently a student group senator, you
much reapply. If you are reapplying, you will have a separate
application. Based upon those applications and if you have been
an exemplary senator, you might not have to come in for an
interview. Lots of internal reform bills today! Yay, everyone’s
favorite.
o Anna: Student Admin shadow happening, called a day in the life.
IT will be happening in 2 weeks. We are sill gathering some
admin. There will be a pre and post meeting about the
experience. I met with Kelly about finals week. There will be
cramming the programming into just one week this week. Norris
will also be open until 3am this quarter, because there is a drop
off after this usual.
o Sofia: We will be doing some student focus groups on CTECs. We
are also looking to expand the charger rentals from the library to
other places on campus.
o Kevin: Alex already talked a little about the community
engagement grant. Cats come to dinner is also happening again
this quarter. The housing fair was a great turnout. We are also

•

•

looking to have a bike light rental system implemented. It was
recently found that many students don’t have bike lights.
o Noah: We are working with Hack Northwestern on working with
some projects. Study abroad interviews are going well.
o Julia: Nominate wildcats of the week! Anyone can be nominated
should. We are helping promoting student athlete talent show,
we are doing PR.
o Chan: Working on some bike projects regarding creating more
bike lanes, as well as bike sharing and repair.
Special Order: Community Engagement Grant Presentation
o Isaac: This is the community engagement grant that will be live
tonight. It was put together last year. It goes to a group of
students or student groups for a project to help improve off
campus efforts. It is an image thing to improve our relations
with Evanston. The project is $500 to be used off campus. We
are hoping to have a strong push for just students to apply, not
just student groups. Please talk with your friends, with you
students, and with your student groups about applying. There
will be a committee to select the North.
Old Business: SL1314-15: Ubu Roi Request
o Motion to move request after election.
o Alex: Since you don't have a SOFO account, where would the
money go?
o Beg to Differ (BTD): We are already in works to
o Alex: Who is your treasurer?
o BTD: Mary Peoples. She is also a producer on the show.
o Chris: Ani and Alex, is there precedence that we have given
money to not a SOFO account.
o Alex: Yes, like with therapy dogs, it is just university
recommended.
o Petros: if you don't get this money, will it still happen?
o Amy: Yes
o BTD: there is a stipulation that if we get more money than the
production will cost, it will go to future BTD productions. We are
also not charging for tickets
o Petros: So this money could go to future BTD productions?

o BTD: Yes technically if we over raise.
o Lauren: Too specific of focus to gain university recognition?
o BTD: We are working with CSI to expand our focus to make sure
that is not an issue.
o Isaac: So if you don't get this money will you have to charge for
tickets.
o Amy: No, but we might have a suggested donation box.
o Grace: What sort of fundraising have you done.
o Amy: Asking money from friends and family mostly.
o Eliza: The production will go on regardless, so if you get this
$500 it will cover costs you have overcompensated for?
o Amy: We have been conservative in our spending, but it could
cover some extras.
o BTD: This would also help with reimbursing students have
o Jenny: What about the grant you applied for through Comm?
o Amy: I haven't heard from them yet
o Jenny: Where has the budget come from?
o Amy: A lot out of pocket and family and friend donation.
o Jenny: Was that out of pocket money, donations or loans?
o Amy: People would be reimbursed for their own spending.
o Alex: We cannot just give you money, so can we give you
receipts that we can reimburse for up to $500. Or we can cut
them a check on your behalf.
o BTD: we have done a great job and keeping track and we have
receipts.
o Isaac: What sort of sustainable funding are you looking for.
o BTD: We do want to become recognized. We also hope that once
we have our inaugural show that funding would be more
regulatory.
o Isaac: How much are you and your members in debt out of
pocket?
o Amy: About $500
o Katie: Con speech
o Petros: This seems like a great cause, but giving a money to a
group without a SOFO account seems if-y. And the show will go
on regardless.

•

o Alex: As I said last week, you don't need to be University
recognized to get a SOFO account. And that makes me
o BTD: we are in the process of getting a SOFO account. But
because of our recent rebranding to become a less "exclusive
group" (CSI's wording) has delayed our process.
o Natalie: You need to recognized by someone on campus and you
need to be on Wildcat Connection to get a SOFO account.
o Alex: don't let logistics of reimbursement judge your vote.
Please don't consider it. I will deal with it. So please look at the
merit of the event.
o Eliza: This seems like a great event, but this seems like back
tracking. It seems like we are reimbursing what is already there.
I would love to see what comes of this show, and then consider
funding.
o Katie: Pro speech
o Chris: Yes, they have not gone along the normal trajectory, but
we should not discredit or not think their event is not
meritorious. They have such a passion and I am confident that
they will succeed and have further productions.
o Alex: Chris changed my mind.
o Chris: Motion to amend, can we add something about them
coming back to Senate to see how the production went. "Have
Beg to Differ come in for a Student Spotlight within 3 weeks
following the production of Ubu Roi."
o Senator: PQ
o Senator: 2nd
[vote passes]
o Alex: PQ
o Senator: 2nd
o [vote passes]
Old Business: SL1314-16: Making Elections Less Awful
o David: The biggest change is to shorten the campaign period
overall. There are 3 campaign period. The first we are in right
now in which that potential candidates can talk with student
group leaders or potential campaign personnel to either join the
team or receive feedback. Next is also another campaign period,

o
o

o
o

o
o

o
o
o
o

o
o

o

the petition and signature gathering process. The next campaign
period is the verbal campaigning period where you can tell
people you are running but there are no written documents
saying you are running. Finally, is the non campaign period that
we all know and love. Shorten petition. Also, we should make
violations public. People have the right to know.
Petros: didn’t the vote end on a weekday last year?
David: I don’t count Friday as a weekend. I think we will have
better voter turnout. And starting the election at 9pm people will
be able to have a kickoff event and candidates need sleep tool
Harrison: Do you really think that having it end on a Wednesday
will help?
David: This is just based off of intuition but based upon what I
have noticed with Facebook posts and participation on surveys,
events, etc.
Lauren: What about if there is not a consequence given?
David: Only if the commission deems a violation as a true
violation, then it will be posted online. Also, the. I think it is
more responsible just let people know the violation.
Chris: what about the prep time allowed previously in the verbal
campaigning period?
David: A good candidate should be ready by then.
Petros: DO you think that publishing violations will hurt
impartiality?
David: The Election Commission’s job should be impartial.
Publicizing violations will not make the commission to take sides,
but actually hold them to a greater power and hold them and the
candidates more accountable.
Chris: Would you want the names involved given?
David: Ideally it would go under just the candidate team’s name.
It should fall on the candidate. If X freshman makes a mistake,
the candidate should ideally take responsibility.
Dana: Do you think publicizing the violations would be a
detriment to the candidate that wins?

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•

•

o David: If someone breaks that rules, then people should no. It
seems like it is in bad faith not to acknowledge the violations
made by the winners.
o Alex: What is going to happen when people are in the same area
fighting for signatures in 2 days?
o David: There is not limit to the number of petitions you can sign
and a signature is a promise to vote.
o Alex: So do you just see candidates lining up in a row to get
people to sign petitions?
o David: If people want to do that, more power to them. There are
greater
o Alex: What about extenuating circumstances?
o David: The Election Commission will have to examine that to sort
it out.
[End of question period]
Alex: Motion to amend to extend the petition period one more
day, so on the fourth day. And additionally, make the petitions
available at 12:01am on Monday.
David: So you would have 3.5 instead of 2.5 days.
Alex: I think that it will help people get there team together and
prepare.
Dana: So would that shorten the campaign period?
Alex: I didn’t’ think about that, we would have to extend it.
David: I would rather have the non-verbal campaign period
shorten. Can someone object?
Senator: Object.
David: I really don’t have sympathy for candidates that
Harrison: Also, there are so many debates and pieces of the
election that must be crammed into a week, and we really can’t
shorten the election period.
Katie: WE are in line for a con.
Petros: I think we can shorten the campaign period. I think campus
will like a shorten election. Also, a petition period should be longer
to not bar people from running.
Senator: PQ
[Division:23, 9, 2 amendment fails]

Chris: Motion to amend, under article v. change it to read “the
commission should make public all CONFIRMED violations.” Also the
candidate shall not make public any names anyone’s name except
the candidates regarding a violation.”
• David: That’s a friendly amendment
• Katie: Would you like to elaborate.
• Chris: I will succeed my time.
• Mark: What do you mean by confirmed violation.
• Chris: I just want to clarify between the alleged violation and
confirmed violations.
• Senator: Objection
• Steven: POI: If it is a friendly amendment by the author, should it
go in?
• Katie: No we don’t follow that rule here. Con speech?
• Alec: I think there is a difference between a candidate knowingly
committing a violation and someone on their campaign doing it by
accident and it should appear differently.
• Senator: Motion to divide question.
• Katie: Okay we will know go into debate about the word
“confirmed.”
• Senator: PQ
[amendment passes]
• Katie: We will now go to the next sentence. Pro speech?
• Chris: I just think it will help clarify
[division 16, 18, 0 amendment fails]
• Katie: We will now vote on the whole bill.
• Alex: PQ
• Katie: any objections. Okay we will move to a vote.
[passes unanimously]
Old Business: SL1314-17: Election Guidelines Revision Suggestions
o Dana: More election revisions that will not overlap with the last
legislation. In section III, in the pre-campaigning period that the
commission will tell all student group leaders the candidates
intent to run. That is impossible so we just put in that the
commission must be told the candidates. Also we put in only
undergraduate students for the current academic year can
•

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

endorse. Faculty, staff, alumni, and graduate students can’t
endorse. Also current exec members can’t endorse and the
election commission can’t endorse
o Ani: Can we change putting together to recruiting and he and
she to they.
o Korri: what would be the consequence if a candidate was
endorsed by a grad student and didn’t know or ask to be?
o Dana: That would be at the discretion of the commission
o Mark: It is only if the candidate publicizes it that
o Isaac: are you concerned by banning exec endorsements would
be pushed underground even further with how they push their
opinion.
o Kevin: So mark, would that apply to exec member endorsements
as well?
o Mark: Yes, what they do on their own time is their own
prerogative.
o Chris: What about students who graduate not in spring quarter.
o Dana: That encompasses that.
o Katie: We would move to a vote.
o Dana: Motion to divide everything. I think we should go down a
line and talk about each thing.
o Katie: Okay, so we are going to look just at section III, precampaigning period, only.
o Ani: PQ
o Senator: 2nd
o Grace: Motion to amend.
o Ani: Withdrawn.
Grace: There is a grammatical error with using candidate and they.
Petros: It is okay in modern American literature.
Grace: Withdrawn.
Isaac: I would like to ad something to campaign resources to
section V.
Katie: We are not in line for that right now.
Isaac: If we are dividing it up, we will never vote on this part.
Katie: Good point.
Dana: We can do it first.

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•

Isaac: Okay I will share you on it now. Essentially, it lists how you
allocate a certain amount of money to each candidate and I would
like to add that all ASG resources, monetary or otherwise, may not
be used.
David: Can we put in that the all the candidates don’t need to
approve it?
Isaac: Yeah that’s friendly.
Senator: 2nd
[passes]
Chris: Can we also include digital as a resource, for like individual
email addresses?
Senator: PQ
Senator: 2nd
[vote passes]
Katie: Okay we are back to section III.
Chris: Can I do my amendment now, it is a new clause.
Katie: Yeah that’s fine.
Chris: So something I thought was cool that other schools do at the
Big Ten Conference. Candidates could run under a candidate name.
So I would like to amend for the candidates be able to submit a
name to run under with approval of the commission. I think it
would provide an added level of knowing what they are about.
There are also a couple caveats. They can’t relate to the previous 4
years of election. It also must be approved by the commission.
Dana: would they be required to do it?
Chris: No it is just an option.
Katie: Con speech?
Petros: I don’t see a point for this. Some people may do this and
others may not who are less creative or something. I also just don’t
see a need for this. The platform should speak more than a catchy
name.
Harrison: We also just don’t know the implications of this and how
it might play out. We would need time to think about this.
Katie: Pro speech
Alex: I think students would like this and that is what an
amendment is for. To be voted on that night.

•
•

•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Katie: Con speech.
David: I also think that this has a potential to move us to a party
system. That is something I worry about and it also just seems
stupid to me.
Katie: Pro speech
Isaac: As a freshman I don’t have any memory of previous
candidates, and I really don’t think that this will be an issue. And I
am not worried about parties being formed.
Chris: This is something a lot of schools
Katie: Con speech.
Korri: I am worried that uninformed students may just vote based
on a name and might skew the voting as a whole.
Petros: There is constitutional memory and Daily articles about
previous names and it may benefit the candidate undeservingly.
Katie: Pro speech
Alex: Well that is then up to the Election Commission to approve.
Dana: I have a question. What about affiliating the candidacy of
your ticket with another school’s candidate?
Chris: I hadn’t really thought about that, but I am not worried.
Katie: Con
Jane: What about candidates who want to use the same name? I
think it adds unneeded complication to the campaign.
Chris: The first candidate who turned it in first would get it.
David: PQ
Senator: 2nd
[amendment fails]
Katie: We will be in line to go over Section III.
David: PQ
Senator: 2nd
[vote passes]
Katie: Okay we will now go through section VI line by line. Line A.
Senator: PQ
Senator: 2nd
[vote passes]
Katie: Okay we will actually B and C together. Dana do you have a
pro speech?

•
•

•
•
•

•

•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Dana: No.
David: I think that it is unfair to say because someone has
graduated that they can’t endorse. As a candidate, you should put
forth your support and value by anyone just because they are one
year out. Also if someone doesn’t know the alumni, it doesn’t cause
any detriment.
Katie: Pro speech
Mark: I am agnostic, but I think we should have this conversation.
But these guidelines
Lauren: Also, because we passed section V, I guess this applies
more to D, but we cannot use the ASG list serve to promote
candidates.
Parag: I think students only on this campus should vote. They are
the ones on campus and will vote. They can of course write the
Daily or something if they feel strongly.
Katie: Con Speech
Luke: I will have to disagree. We are apart of the Northwestern
community, and others besides current students should have the
right to have their voices heard.
Alex: Motion to strike B, and strike graduate students and alumni.
Katie: Okay would you like to explain?
Alex: Faculty and staff should be impartial but everyone else should
be okay.
Senator: 2nd
Senator: objection
Petros: I our oath we support the undergraduate students. And
having outside influence would be silly.
Isaac: I think grad students is fine. They have their own student
government and don’t really need to be concerned with us.
Alex: I would like to withdraw my amendment and reintroduce
keeping alumni.
Katie: Con speech
Petros: A lot of students won’t even know older alumni, and it will
hold little importance to younger students.
Katie: Pro

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

Dillon: What if a candidate knows Stephen Colbert. They should be
able to get an endorsement.
Noah: Also, who cares if the student doesn’t know the alumni, it
really doesn’t make that much of a difference.
Katie: Con
Senator: It is the title that will carry weight not the fact they
graduated from here.
Katie: Okay we will be moving to a vote.
Noah: Can we clarify what we are voting on.
Katie: We are voting to cut line B and alumni from line C.
[division: 19, 8, 1 amendment passes]
David: I would like to amend to strike graduate students to say “all
current teaching assistants, excepting graduate students”.
Katie: Would you like to explain?
David: I think this argument is very similar to the alumni argument.
Petros: It may be my personal opinion, but I still think this is a
conflict of interest.
Senator: PQ
Senator: 2nd
[amendment passes]
Senator: PQ
Senator: 2nd
[line passes]
Katie: Okay we are now in line to vote on line d. Dana would you
like to elaborate?
Dana: No.
Katie: Con speech?
Noah: The executive board offer a good prospective seeing as they
have already held the position and apart of the democratic process
is to make sure that all perspectives are heard.
Katie: Pro speech?
Grace: The exec board creates such a weight that it might greatly
alter or affect the candidates.
David: POI: the candidate who was endorsed by the outgoing pres
and EVP won 2/5 past years.
Katie: con speech

•
•
•

•

•

•
•
•
•

•
•

•

•
•

Isaac: These people were voted into office because they wanted
them there, and that
Katie: Pro speech
Harrison: There might be a conflict of interest if for say in theory a
junior exec member may be coerced into supporting a candidate for
fear that they may not get their position again.
Noah: If a candidate is that corrupt it will come up in other ways,
and the election should not be affected because of a hypothetical
case. It can be dealt on a case by case basis.
Petros: You have one year as ASG president, and you can waste
your entire year trying to get that year out of office. Such an event
happening will ruin all the progress we have made over the past
couple years. We need to regulate this to create a viable student
government.
Isaac: We are not barring exec from having an opinion. Everyone
can be aware of who someone supports.
Senator: So can an exec member serve on a campaign team?
Dana: yeah
Alex: That is a loophole. Motion to amend to add serve on a
campaign team.
[division: 15, 11, 1 amendment passes]
Katie: we are in line for a pro speech
Nikki: I think ASG is pushing to promote students on campus. And
the impact the exec board has is great and not endorsing will allow
for more conversations.
Ani: I would totally endorse someone from outside ASG if they are
the right candidate. Brad and Victor were from outside of ASG and I
would have endorsed them if I wasn’t Speaker. Also, if I support a
candidate I can make it known. And if I have a professional
evaluation of someone as a previous president, that is just more
information and another voice on campus. If the campus thinks that
I have done a terrible
Katie: You are out of time and Victor was a Senator and Brad was
on a committee.
Grace: It is just what Ani said. It is natural that your opinion will
lean towards what they people who are most experience say.

Senator: The undergraduates should decide who they are voting
for. I am trusting Northwestern students to take endorsements for
what they will. I think it is disrespectful to not have the exec board
endorse.
• Noah: By the logic that we should not allow exec members to
endorse because they have worked with them, we should bar all
student leaders that have worked with them from endorsing. That
just doesn’t make sense. If someone knows a position well and
someone who is running, they should be able to endorse.
New Business: SR1314-04: ASG Supports Trans* Students
o Petros: Trans* is a inclusive term, more inclusive than just
transgender.
o Alex: Why does this go without saying?
o Isaac: This was just presented at the conference and you all
should have your choice to vote.
o Petros: This would be a great gesture to a community
o Senator: Is there a certain group you are looking us to reach out
to.
o Isaac: No it just means to be more aware within your own
constituency.
o Katie: old business next week.
New Business: SR1314-05: Resolution Supporting the Affordable
College Textbook Act
o Lauren: This is in support of a bill that is currently working is
way through Congress. Our other resolutions coming next week
are academic based. We would like open-source textbooks to be
available to students.
o Isaac: Basically it is a free textbook online that would just
update.
o Lauren: And you would be able to print it out for a low cost. Also
I think this increases the competition of textbook providers. This
is also in the works at other Big 10 schools.
o Katie: Old Business next week.
New Business: SL1314-18: In Order to Form a More Perfect Cabinet
New Business: SL1314-19: Cleaning the Constitution: Constitution
Review Winter 2014
•

•

•

•
•

•
•

Good of the Order & Announcements
Roll Call and Adjournment

