ASG Senate Minutes 10/09/2013
Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
General Order: Swearing-in of New Senators
• Katie: So we will be taking attendance at the beginning and end of
every Senate for Senators that are new. Also, let’s start with
Senator introductions. So, each Senator please stand up and say
your name, year, major and group you represent.
[Introductions]
• Katie: Now we will move into exec reports. This is all in the agenda.
Orientation on Sunday, location TBA. Committees will be
announced. Caucus whip elections are next week. Whips lead
Caucus meetings. Think about it this next week and elections will be
held next week.
• Alex: Can we do exec introductions?
• Katie: Yes! I am a senior studying political science and I am
Speaker of the Senate. I have been in ASG since sophomore year,
starting as a Senator.
• Abby: Hi, I’m Abby and I am a senior studying mechanical
engineering. I am Parliamentarian, so I am in charge of all
legislation that comes through Senate and the ASG Code and
Constitution. Next week, we are actually holding Rules Committee
elections. I also serve as VP of Rules and the committee of 6
Senators helps me review legislation each week and upkeep the
Code and Constitution. It is a great chance to get involved so
consider running!
• Ani: I am Ani and President of ASG. I am a senior studying poly sci.
Please check out our exec board reports. We have a lot of great
information out there in them, so please take a look. We did have
an office renovation this summer, it is really nice, we are really
opening it up this year. So, feel free to make it feel like your space
too. Everyone on the exec board is here to help you. We are a
support and please use us as a resource. I have to leave
• Alex: Hi, I am Alex Van Atta. I am IE and kind of a senior. This is
my third year in ASG. I am EVP. As far as exec board reports go,
please be on the look out for 10K. We will be having legislation next

•
•
•
•
•

•

•

•

•

week to clear things up and then recruitment for it. The idea is that
10K will be used to make some idea brought to us by the students
happen. We have done 6 spots. 3 ASG and 3 not. We will take
suggestions during Fall, Winter quarter we narrow down to 6, and
then we have Senate vote on what will be sent out to campus.
Mark: I thought last year it was benches in general?
Alex: I think that was the wording.
Mark: I thought benches and tables were separate.
Petros: It was combined.
Alex: Yes it was combined and we will be placing the furniture in
the grassy area by Scott Hall. There is a lot going on. Go to Campus
Voice (web address). It is a great way to gauge what students
needs are. Welcome.
David: Hi, I am David Harris. 4th year studying econ. My job is to
recruit and train. Thank you for being here. For those veterans
here, I am recruiting for Operations for a few weeks. It will look
different and will be members that have already been in Senate
before.
Sophia: Hi, I am Sophia bio, Asian American studies and global
health minor. Please look at my exec board report. Annually my
committee does a Faculty-Staff Honor Roll. How many of you know
what the Faculty Student Interaction Grant is? Okay so we will be
working in coordination with them more this year. The goal is to
build relationships between professors and students, so please be
on the lookout for that. I have also been working on communication
ties with Student Advisory Boards. We will also be sending out
survey on academics.
Siddiq: My name is Siddiq and I am a senior and head of SAFC. We
have our 2nd funding cycle coming up. And we have a open position
so please consider running.
Neel: I am Neel, SGVP. At the beginning of the quarter, all of our
groups are going through a quarterly review. We just finished up
and now we are going through roll backs, which is money that
wasn’t used that will be rolled back. It is basically when student
groups aren’t spending money, so we will have more money in our
pool soon.

Kevin: I am VP for CR. So as a recap, we just help Big Bite Night.
Great turnout and students groups performing was new. Cats
Coming to Dinner is coming soon too. We will be connecting
students with Evanston families. It will be happening end of
October. We will be having a light walk next week, so let us know
what areas you think are dark if you live off campus. Occupancy
reform, brothel law, is being reviewed by Evanston City Council. As
an update, it has been pushed back again. Hopefully it will be up in
November.
• Noah: Hi, I am Noah a junior and I am Services VP. We on services
start with a operating budget of $0 and come up with solutions for
student services ground up. We are working on the Unofficial Study
Abroad Guide. We are also working on the Unofficial Student Guide
app that will be a great tech help for students. Please encourage
students to use Bookswap.
• Sheng: Hi I am tech VP. Over the summer, I have been working on
some services app and other tech projects.
• Julia: Hi I am a Junior and PR VP. Wildcat of the Week award is
starting. We are looking for student exhibiting leadership and
strong character. We also will be sending out forms about
submitting events for student groups to promote in a more public
way
• Wes: Hey guys I am senior in Weinberg. I am AVP for
Sustainability. We do really cool projects that affects all students.
Off campus students, we are handing out CFL bulbs. If you live on
campus, if you have an eco rep, you should be getting an email
about plastic bag collection here at Norris.
• Natalie: Hi. I am associate director for CSI. I am the head advisor
for ASG. I am here to help you in anyway that you may need. Up
on 3rd, we will also be creating a new student resource center.
General Order: Introduction to Robert’s Rules
New Business: SR1314-1: Resolution Concerning the Adoption of a
Tobacco-Free Campus Policy
• Katie: We are changing things up a bit and moving up a new piece
of legislation. (Talked about process. Week to talk with constituents
and vote, etc.)
•

•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Alex: We aren’t arguing about the bill tonight right?
Katie: Yes, tonight it is informational.
Carolyn: I am President of the Public Health Club. We are moving to
make NU a tobacco-free campus. It is a huge killer in America and
Illinois. Second hand and even third hand smoke is very dangerous.
There are 766 campus also making this move. It will benefit the
university financially and health-wise. It will cut down on littering,
health-care costs. So if you guys have any questions…?
Alex: How much weight would you say in cigarette liter is there?
Carolyn: I don’t know
Petros: Have you talked to the administration?
Carolyn: Yes, the administration passed a smoke-free bill. They
didn’t understand the difference between smoke-free and tobaccofree.
Mark: Can you explain the difference between smoke free and
tobacco free?
Carolyn: Yes there is a difference. This bill also includes ecigarettes. We are collecting all of this together.
Taylor: How will the university enforce this?
Carolyn: Signage and peer encouragement.
Taylor: What will consequences be?
Carolyn: Police can be involved, like they could maybe search
students if they found their activity to potentially be suspicious.
Petros: Will this just push smoking off campus?
Carolyn: That is a worry. But 70% of smokers do want to stop. And
there are statistics that prove that
Alex: Can you smoke while driving by?
Carolyn: Technically, I guess no.
Isaac: What is the current rule?
Carolyn: No smoking within 25 feet of ventilation and doorways and
in university buildings.
Harrison: If the language of the bill we pass and the Faculty Senate
differ, what will happen?
Carolyn: the Faculty Senate want to uphold the tobacco-free bill.
Senator: Why e-cigarettes?

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Carolyn: There is empirical data that I have on hand, but I feel that
it should be included.
Melanie: Would there be tobacco-free products on campus?
Carolyn: NO
Alex: What would the implementation timeline be?
Carolyn: A couple of months.
Senator: So could students have cigarettes in their rooms?
Carolyn: Technically no, but that would be hard to track.
Mark: Who will be implementing this?
Carolyn: I don’t know yet, but we wanted to show support for this
from ASG first.
Mark: Should this be legislation so we can have action to help this?
Carolyn: I was told not to.
Sean: Can we explain the difference between Resolution and
Legislation?
Katie: A resolution calls for support and legislation calls for action to
be taken by ASG.
Arian: Does this to the possession of tobacco products, like if
someone had a pack of cigarettes in their pocket?
Carolyn: The whole campus would be tobacco free.
Arian: So would off campus students have to stash cigarettes
before coming on campus?
Carolyn: I don’t think that would be an issue.
Dillon: Why don’t you just make it for no use of tobacco on
campus?
Carolyn: It is a social norm change.
Petros: Do you have any statistics on use of tobacco on campus and
statistics of complaints of use.
Carolyn: I don’t think we have stats for complaints, but we do have
statistics for students who smoke.
Taylor: You said police officer like this because it gives them
greater right to search students?
Carolyn: It’s not to search students.
Taylor: So what are we doing for enforcement?
Carolyn: We won’t know that until further down the line.
Mark: Motion to extend questioning by 3 minutes.

Katie: Great let’s explain what this is. We have 10 minutes for
question period. And you can ask to extend the period by
motioning. The we will vote on it. For, against, or abstain. All in
favor? Opposed? Abstaining?
[passes by visual vote]
David: Are you familiar is with what COFHE is?
Carolyn: No
David: it is a collection of private schools that our administration
compares us to and looks to a lot for moves on issues like this.
What schools have adopted this sort of tobacco-free campus policy?
Carolyn: Some Harvard institutions, Stanford, and some others.
And a full list is online.
Mark: I have a question for Abby. Has this gone through Rules?
Abby: Yes. That is why it is here tonight.
Mark: Okay, we will talk.
Melanie: Have you talked to smokers about this?
Carolyn: Yes, and a lot of smokers are against this. But a lot of
smokers in the end are usually in support of moves like this
eventually.
Katie: Any more questions? Okay thanks Carolyn. This will be old
business next week and then we will vote on this.
New Business: Associate Vice President for Diversity and Inclusion
Selection Process Presentation
• Alex: Okay we are going to do a little presentation.
• Katie: Any questions about legislation really fast?
• Dylan: How many votes to make it pass?
• Katie: Majority.
• Alex: So AVP of D&I has been vacant since spring of 2013. Since
then we have really evaluated with our advisors, CoC, and others
on campus to really talk about what this position is. We went back
to the drawing board and kind of redefined the role better. You can
read this and there is a link in the agenda. What we want to
emphasize is that this position is simply a voice to Ani and I, and
we will be the ones speaking on these issues for ASG. They will
assist with me and Ani on projects relating to D&I. They will be
sitting on various committees that are pertinent to their role. There
•

•
•
•

•
•

•
•
•
•

is an Eva Jefferson day, an old ASG President in MLK Jr’s day, and
they will be working on that. It will function very similarly to Anna
and Sophia’s role where they sit on university committees that
relate to their role. Okay so qualifications. Most importantly,
experience in the related area. We want to see track record and
dedication to D&I on campus. Ability to work across various
communities. This position is open to anyone on campus, as long as
they meet the qualifications. If this is a passion of yours, please feel
free to apply.
Mark: Can you speak to the status of the group and how it will
factor into the process?
Alex: Sophia?
Sophia: We reached out to them over the summer and asked about
their projects. Some have left the committee, but are still working
on D&I issues. All have been reached out to though in the summer
and fall.
Mark: So there is a committee? Or would they have a recruitment
process?
Alex: Yes there will be a recruitment process after the selection of
the AVP. So this is brought to you, because when there is a
vacancy, the process that we are going to take to fill it must be
approved by Senate. There is a new selection committee, chaired
by Ani and David. I will sit on there, Anna, Sophia, Coalition of
Color co-chairs as non-voting members to share their thoughts.
Katie will also be on there. This mirrors what we did in spring.
Normally the outgoing member sits on there, but she has
graduated. Apps will be released tomorrow if passed. And then we
will use grassroots method to spread the word. Apps due next
Wednesday and approval will happen in 2 Wednesdays. Any
questions? I want this as clear as possible.
Elena: Are you going to be sending this out?
Katie: Yes it is linked in the agenda/
Alex: Also a lot of this will appear on the application.
Dylan: Is there written record of this?

Abby: Yes I am taking minutes. As Parliamentarian that is one of
my duties, and you can view the minutes that will be linked in next
week’s minutes.
• Senator: Do we get email updates about this?
• Katie: Yes I was going to announce this later, but if you are not on
the list serve let me know. Any questions about this process though
right now? Okay, great so we will vote on this selection process. So,
we will now move to a vote.
[passes by visual vote]
Okay, so now we are doing something a little new. We are swearing
in all new senators. This is new. We have a book but there are a lot
of you, so you can just stand up. I will now administer the oath.
[OATH]
• Katie: Julia should we do a picture?
• Julia: Sure!
• Katie: Now or later?
• Julia: Now is good.
Good of the Order & Announcements
• Katie: Okay now the last thing we do is Good of the Order. This is a
chance for anyone to say something about an event that may be
happening on campus or a comment that they would like to make
to Senate.
• Sean: What about Senate reform?
Abby: I am meeting with Burgie tomorrow and will give an update
next week.
• Sean: Come to A&O Blowout and Man of Steel.
• Adam: If you are good with Photoshop, please come help me with
an idea I am working on with Siddiq.
• Mark: Please come to the Environmental Career Fair tomorrow in
Norris.
• Alex: I just want to say to all the new Senators in the room,
congrats for making it through.
• Katie: Let me know if you are not on the list serve.
• David: Orientation is Sunday 2-4. It is mandatory, so be there.
Location is TBA.
Roll Call and Adjournment
•

