Senate 11/20/2013

3/5/14 8:59 AM

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
Student Group Spotlight: College Republicans’ Freedom Week
Special Order: Typhoon Haiyan Relief Presentation
General Order: 10K Launch Presentation
Old Business: A-Status Funding
Katie: Siddiq do you have anything you’d like to say before we get started?
Siddiq: There are a bunch of organizations that are A status groups that put
on a lot of the big programming on campus. Each AE has a few groups that
they help each year and they go to all the programming that the groups put
on. When funding comes around, they help Student Group leaders put
together a proposal and then we sit down with them and they explain what
they are asking for. Then we go through all the materials and look at the
different tiers they have asked for and based on the quality of the
programming we increase or decrease funding. Things we don’t fund include
food, alcohol and anything exclusive. When we go through all the funding,
we look at all the applications and try to distribute it as fairly as possible. So
that’s the perspective we’re coming from and a little background.
Katie: Any questions? Okay, then we are going to do a cut group first. I’m
going to run through a randomized list of the student groups receiving
funding. Now we’re going to move into an add round.
College Feminists: Motion to add. We’re moving to add $200 dollars to the
Vagina Monologue line item, we originally received $0.
SAFC: We’re comfortable with the $200.
Katie: Anyone have any questions? We’re in line for a pro speech.
Alex: Motion to Previous Question.
Katie: Anyone objecting? All those in favor, all those opposed. Passes
unanimously.
Caribnation: Motion to add. We motion to add $500 dollars to our
honorarium, which is an event to raise awareness about Caribbean culture.
SAFC: We recognize that this is a successful event, but it already received a
4% increase and $500 would not be sustainable.
Katie: Any questions? We are in line for a pro speech.

Caribnation: It’s hard because artists are always expensive and most of the
artist we’ve had have not had much name recognition outside of the
community.
Katie: We’re in line for a con.
Alex: Motion to Previous Question.
Katie: Any objections? All those in favor, all those opposed. The motion
passes. Now we’ll do another cut round. Now we’re open for another add
round.
College Republicans: Motion to add. I want to add $250 to travel.
SAFC: Their winter speaker has only gone on once and we fund consistent
events. It was a good event last year, but they need to prove that they can
do it consistently.
Katie: Questions?
Chris: Can you describe whether they’ve had consistent programming in
general?
College Republicans: We have consistent speakers and the attendance
ranges from 75 to 500 people.
Isaac R: Can you define consistent?
SAFC: It makes more than two and also consistent attendance. They need to
prove that they can do it and that the campus wants it, because there is so
much programming at Northwestern. Last year they used a connection to
get the speaker and we want to make sure it’s not an anomaly.
Alex: Can you explain the Young American Foundation?
College Republicans: I don’t know exactly, but I know they have bee really
helpful. They want to increase public engagement on college campuses. We
don’t know if that source of funding is sustainable.
Katie: We’re in line for a pro speech.
Will: We’ve done this event in the past without attendance so we stopped it,
but we’re trying to bring it back because of our recent momentum and
success of other events.
Katie: We’re in line for a con.
Alex: In line with what the SAFC has said, the fact that it’s only the second
time you put it on and because the YAF has helped you so much with other
events, I think you guys can make do without the funding.

Will: To what you said, I definitely understand what you said. If we keep
going back to them, we don’t want them to take away money from other
speakers. We need to show them that we’re expanding.
SAFC: We do operate on precedent and we want to be fair to all groups. We
try to be conservative and attendance is lower compared to your other
events. We’ll take the success of this year’s event into account.
Alex: Motion to previous question.
Objection.
Withdrawn.
Katie: There is additional time on the con.
Isaac: The YAF is a foundation that is headquartered at the Reagan Ranch in
California with an endowment of over 10 billion dollars. I think the default
answer for new events should continue to be no.
Chris: If you’re going to not give them a funding, do it because of precedent
and not because of Isaac’s personal knowledge of the YAF.
Isaac: It absolutely is appropriate, because we have a pool of money that
goes to student. If one groups does not face scarcity for any reason, then we
should focus the limited resources on where we’d have the most impact.
SAFC: What he’s trying to point out is that we look at need. But we look at
events, not groups. They are a great group, but this event is newer. We
need to adhere to the guidelines.
Alex: Motion to PQ
Katie: All in favor, all opposed. The motion fails. We’re going to continue
with the add round.
Alex: Motion to close funding.
Katie: Any objections? All in favor, all opposed. Funding is closed.
Old Business: SL1314-05: $hining a Light on $tudent Activities: An
Assessment of Support for Student Groups
Sofia: Basically the premise of the group is a working group of six students
that will assess the way the SAF is spent currently and how policies influence
that spending. We want to know what student groups want. Any questions?
Katie: Seeing that there are no questions, we’re going to go to debate. Open
to a con speech and amendments.
Isaac R: You plan to elect the two students today?
Sofia: Yes.

Mark: Motion to amend. Can we change the title to Ss instead of $s?
Katie: Any objections? No objections. All those in favor, all those opposed.
Motion fails.
Isaac H: Motion to previous question.
-: Isn’t it unreasonable to have the election immediately following the
passing of the bill?
Sofia: The timing isn’t the most ideal, but we’ve reached out to people and
there’s been a week for you to reach out to your constituents.
Isaac R: Is there precedent for moving it?
Dana: In the past 2-3 years that has not happened and you would have to
suspend the rules to do so.
Isaac R: Are you looking for students at large or senators?
Sofia: I just want to leave it open, because the most important component is
interest.
Lauren: Are the people being confirmed tonight?
Sofia: Yes.
Katie: All those in favor? All those opposed? It passes. Now we’ll move
immediately into confirmations of the SAFC members.
Siddiq: Our two members we are hoping to confirm are Jason and Amrit.
Amrit: We’ve been involved in a data project to try to get at the bottom of
this. We want to know what money is going to things that aren’t actually
going to programming.
Katie: Does anyone have any questions? Now we’re in line to
Isaac H: I move to suspend the rules and vote on confirmation.
Katie: All in favor, all opposed. The rules have been suspended. All in favor
of confirmation, all opposed. They’re confirmed. SGC members.
Addalina and Danielle: We’re both on the SGC and we are interested
because we are very active in the SGC and part of our conversation there is
how we can most efficiently allocate funds. I think we are particularly good
because Danielle does logistics of programming and I created a database of
our archives and internal logistics, so we understand historical precedent.
Katie: Any questions?
Isaac H: Motion to suspend rules again.
Katie: All in favor, all opposed. Rules suspended. All in favor, all opposed.
Confirmed, congratulations. Now we’ll do in-Senate nominations.
Alex: I nominate Katie McLaughlin.

Katie M: I accept.
Sean: Tori.
Tori: I accept.
Neel: Justin.
Justin: I accept.
Katie F: Any other nominations? The nomination floor is closed.
Katie M: I’m interested in this working group, because I want to get greater
insight into how it works. I’ve been involved in a variety of student groups,
but not on the executive level.
Tori: I’m on the SAFC, but I’m also the treasurer of a B status group and
have a better understanding from that. I’m also part of an organization that
gets outside funding and have had lengthy discussions about how NU
funding is different from other schools. This is very important to me.
Justin: I’m entering my second year as a treasurer of a B status group and
am also the treasurer of an A status group. I’ve been through many funding
cycles and am not a member of ASG.
Katie F: Any questions?
Lauren: Time commitments?
Tori: The groups I mentioned. But I’m only taking three classes and I’m
done in spring.
Justin: Just the two groups I mentioned.
Katie M: Senate and non-exec members of other groups.
Katie F: Any other questions? Seeing none, we’ll move into endorsements.
Old Business: SL1314-06: Dog Therapy Benefitting Northwestern Relay for
Life
Alex: Like we said last week, legislation pays for 50 dollar fee for dog
insurance, and 100 dollars is for suggested donation. Noticed in the past
that we ended up paying out of pocket very often
Maria: Main reason for application is because we will have suggested
donation for ACS of 5 dollars. This money you offer would support more of
the efforts of the ACS, so we don’t have to take it out of pocket and
maximize donations
Alex D.: If funded this year, do we have to do this long term?
Alex V.A.: We would need to pay at least 100 dollars each six months, so we
would need to find a way to make it happen or include in budget
Katie: Questions? [no questions]

Alex: PQ
Katie: We will move to a vote. Passed unanimously.
New Business: SL1314-04: Northwestern Crew New Boat
Kaylee: Operating budget is 80k dues and most of that comes from dues.
Dues are $1500 per year and there is a 2$50 fundraising requirement. It is
obviously a challenge to raise that money. Our budget goes to coaches and
travelling and equipment. As college students our budget, we barely scrape
by each year. We were the only club boat to make it into the finals, but to be
as competitive as possible, we need a new boat. A new racing shell is
$43000. We currently have $11000 in our capital campaign and are in the
beginning stages of a capital campaign. We are asking the ASG project pool
for $2500, but in all honestly, anything would be helpful.
Katie: We have 10 min for questions.
Alex: How many students would use this?
Kaylee: We have 20 varsity members. The 8 is normally rowed by our top 8
varisty women. So, 20 per year. You can expect a boat to last approximately
8 years on the varsity squad and 8 on the novice squad.
Isaac H: Why are you asking now?
Kaylee: We want to put the down payment now so that we can order it and
it’ll be available in the spring when we’ll pay the rest of it off.
Belinda: What is the number of boats you have right now.
Kaylee: We have four eights and five fours.
Belinda:
Kaylee: It comes largely from alumni donations, but our alumni are
relatively young because we’re a relatively new team. We also do
concessions at football games.
Isaac R: Will you need to replace any other boats soon?
Kaylee: We are trying to transition our team, so depending on the success of
the campaign, we might try to look into a boat for the men.
Mark: You said you were selling boats, can you explain that? Have you
approached corporate sponsors?
Kaylee: We had a boat crash a few years ago, so we turned it into a four.
It’s not being used, so we’re hoping to sell that. Because we’re a crew team,
it’s more viable to sell the naming rights to a boat, which is more likely to be
bought by a family. Corporate sponsors aren’t interested in this kind of
thing.

Isaac H: Once you sell the boat, will that be enough for the down payment?
Kaylee: No, we’ll need an additional $5,000.
Katie: This will be old business next week.
Good of the Order & Announcements
Roll Call and Adjournment

