Senate 10/23/2013

3/5/14 8:59 AM

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
• Katie: Apply to be Caucus Whip
• Ani: Look at Agenda.
• Alex: Help with t-shirts tomorrow at the field.
• David: Sign up to be a mentee if you are a sophomore or freshman.
You will meet with an upperclassman every 2 weeks to talk about
your future with ASG. Any questions?
• Sophia: I have a huge list of projects in the agenda. We are also
gathering questions for a survey for each committee for the whole
school. This will help target what we can look at and work on. Look
at the agenda for details of the projects we are looking on, such as
electronic course packets, grant pools for JR and practicum,
dialogues for study abroad. Please just look at the list. Also,
chargers at the library. I am looking into it. The ones at tech are
still available.
• Siddiq: Lots of great programming going on, like Adrain Grenier
with SEED or Project Pumpkin. We are having elections for SAFC
AE’s later tonight for both Senator and non-Senator position.
• Katie: Kevin is sick but look at his exec board report.
• Noah: We are still working on Study Abroad Guide and that should
be out in the winter. WE are also re-designing JobCat, so look out
for the PR push.
• Mark: Are you looking for student opinion on study abroad?
• Noah: I wasn’t but we can.
• Sheng: I am meeting with NUIT. If you have aproblem with WI-FI,
please submit it online, because that is the only way they can track
it. I am also meeiting about creating a Norhtwesteern API. Which
will help students write code for apps that would be helpful for
students.
• Julia: Read my updates, but our events listserve is now working.
Please fill it out! 1800 students are on it already.We are working on
student athletics and we are working on mental health.
Special Order: Associate VP for Diversity and Inclusion Confirmation -Thaddeus Tukes

•

•

•
•

•
•

•

•

Ani: Just to give you guys a refresher on the committee itself, a few
of us came in and presented this revamped position. This position
was created last year and works under the Director of Student Life.
We updated the position description to include how Northwestern
approaches Diversity and Inclusion. The position is not the sole
person in ASG responsible to all things Diversity and Inclusion
related. They are the expert and the person of contact and help us
navigate issues related to Diversity and Inclusion. The position is
supposed to serve all students on campus, because at this
university we hold Diversity and Inclusion highly. Any questions?
Thaddeus really blew us away in the interview and touched on not
only the obvious issues, but also more subtle ideas.
Thaddeus: My name is Thaddeus Tukes, I’m a sophomore here,
doubling in Jazz Studies and Journalism. I applied for this position
because I have not only observed events last year and this year,
but also I’ve also spoken to many leaders and have noticed holes in
communication. I don’t see minority groups just as race, gender,
sexuality, etc. but any group that is underrepresented.
Taylor: One advantage members on exec have had is the time
they’ve had already. How will you start out?
Thaddeus: A lot of what I’ll be doing are things I’ve already started
doing on a micro-scale. Being in this position allows me to do it at a
larger scale. I don’t have the same experience they’ve had, but I do
have experience and knowledge that I can use and apply to that
larger scale.
Alex: What do you say is the most similar position to this one that
you’ve held in the past?
Thaddeus: I’m also the editor of Pulse Magazine and one of my
roles is expanding the magazine. How can we reach more
communities and expand what we’re doing. I’ve been in that
position for a year and it’s my most applicable official experience.
Mark: You are obviously very accomplished on campus and I
imagine you double majors are also time consuming. How will you
manage your time?
Thaddeus: It’s just a matter of changing spaces. A lot of what I’ll be
doing are things I already do every day. Now, instead of it being in

•
•

•
•

•
•

•
•
•
•

•
•

my own personal space, it’ll be in the public space. It will be an
additional time commitment, but definitely manageable.
Alex: When did you hear about this position and when did you
make your decision to run?
Thaddeus: I heard about it last year and didn’t realize that it was
open this year until a day before the deadline. Luckily there was an
extension.
Isaac: How are you at relating to people who are not a member of
your specific community?
Thaddeus: Even within my own community there are people that
are very different. The way I approach everything is very open. I
know I’m in a unique position. I’m the only jazz studies and
journalism on campus and I would like people to approach me as a
unique and open person, so I do that for them.
April: How do you plan to use ASG to bring together different
communities?
Thaddeus: The first step is to approach the student and faculty
leadership in various realms. If you get all of the leadership on
board and on the same page, it’ll be easier to connect the groups. I
will be going person to person and within groups of friends, but the
key thing is to get the leadership in on the same agenda. Then we
can expand and simultaneously become inclusive.
Mark: Have you had the opportunity to interact with the committee
as it exists now?
Thaddeus: No I haven’t. That’s probably because I’m not in the
position.
Mark: How do you plan to lead a committee?
Thaddeus: The best example I like to lead is being the leader of a
band. I know about egos and personalities and opinions. As a
leader, you have to listen to what everyone has to say and
understanding what we can do and what we can. Not everyone will
agree, but I’m going to try my absolute best to compromise.
April: How do you plan to get other students involved in ASG,
especially communities that are underrepresented.
Thaddeus: Leadership. I have to go to the people with sway and
have them explain how important it is. We need to impress on

•
•

•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

everyone how important it is to be a part of ASG and be able to
influence change. Leadership is the first priority, but after that I
want to work with that leadership to help communities understand
the importance.
Gio: Can you list off some of the relevant people?
Thaddeus: I can say I’ve spoken with – administration is a difficult
one. I have not yet been in a position to address them forthright.
I’ve spoken with the leaders of Alianza and FMO. That’s how I found
that there was a lack of communication between those two groups.
Obviously there are more groups than that. I do have to reach out
more to leaders, but that will definitely happen.
Katie: Okay that is the end of question period.
Mark: Motion to extend by three minutes.
Senator: Second.
Taylor: There are obviously some students who don’t think diversity
is important, what do you say to them?
Thaddeus: It really is hard to convince people who don’t see the
need. First, I would express to them the amount of resources they
would have access to in an inclusive environment. Friendships,
relationships, jobs, careers, everything. If you want to become the
best you, that requires putting yourself in positions that you might
not be comfortable with.
Alex: Who’s your favorite jazz musician?
Thaddeus: That’s a hard question, bro.
Angela: One of the issues in diversity debates has been the
emotionality that arises. How would you approach that obstacle?
Thaddeus: I would let them know that being emotional is okay.
Different experiences will cause emotional responses. What I will do
is create safe spaces. Yes this will be touchy, emotional, and you
might be offended, but we have to go there. I won’t say it’ll be
emotionless, but I want to help people work through that.
Katie: That’s the end of question period.
Mark: Motion to extend by 3 minutes.
Senator: Second.
Mark: The university is using the euphemism “uncomfortable
learning.” What do you think about it?

•

•
•

•

General
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Thaddeus: I think the concept is good, but you’re predisposing
people to feel uncomfortable. I do like the idea of people being
uncomfortable, but it could be reworded.
Harrison: What do you see being your major accomplishments a
year from now?
Thaddeus: Communication, because once you establish that, that’s
how you get expansion and change. I’m also interested in mental
health and we’ve seen the consequences of ignoring our well being.
I want to work with Student Life and the rest of exec to help us feel
like we’re in a safer and more comfortable environment. We’re
young, we should not be this stressed. I don’t want to give a
general answer, but more inclusivity. It sounds ambiguous, but in
general we should have a safer and more comfortable environment
between communities.
Katie: That’s the end of question period.
[Confirmed unanimously.]
[OATH ADMINISTERED]
Order: 10K Committee Elections
Katie: We will now move to the non-Senator positions for the 10K
committee.
Alex: The 10K Committee is in charge of conducting the 10K
Initiative. Fall is a low commitment about getting the word out and
getting students to submit the ideas. Then in Winter we narrow
down the ideas that then get submitted to Senate. Then 4 weeks to
the end of Winter, the final ideas get sent out to students to vote
on. Then Spring is about getting it accomplished.
Katie: We have 3 non-ASG positions.
Senator: Frances
Alex: 2nd
Harrison: Dane Steer
Alex: 2nd
Dane: What is going on? No thanks.
Alex: if any positions, aren't filled, I can just fill them.
Isaac: How? Your friends?
Alex: It is up to my discretion, but it will be a legitimate process.

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

•

•

Frances: My name is Frances Woo and I am a junior. I want to be
on 10K because I am very involved on campus. I founded a group
on campus promoting public and mental health. I am involved in
SHAPE and my Greek community. These experiences have given
me the opportunities to work with ASG already, working on the
alcohol working group and others. I really want to help the
Northwestern student body. I have great time management skills,
but I have already made connections to many people on campus.
Alex: What was your favorite idea last year?
Frances: The mental health one.
[Confirmed unanimously]
Katie: We will now move to fill 3 ASG spots. Nominations?
Harrison: Korri and Evan
Korri: I accept
Evan: I accept
Angela: Danielle Lay
Danielle: I accept
Isaac: Mark Silberg
Mark: Kind, but no.
Nevil: I nominate myself.
Korri: I am the Elder Senator and I am interested in being on the
10K committee because this year as a freshman I have been blown
away by how passionate the student body is. And I want to be an
active part to help facilitate having student ideas come alive.
Evan: I am the Allison Senator. I was on the 10K committee last
year, and I love working to make student ideas real. It is like a live
Campus Voice.
Angela: I am on SGC. I want to be on 10K because I think ASG is
an invaluable resource to Northwestern and people underestimate
the power of student voice with ASG. I think that is really
important. On campus, I have been involved in SGC since
Freshman year, I am VP of Finance for one of the newest groups for
NSH, and I am in an a cappella group.
Nevil: I am on Services. I was on D&I and PLI and that allowed me
to get exposed to many aspects of Northwestern. I am a CA. The

•
•

•
•
•

•
•
•

10K really fascinates me, and the idea of getting ideas and seeing it
through to completion I would really like to do.
Petros: What would be your winning 10K idea?
Evan: I am going to go with one that I saw last year. Sorry to be
cheating. I would go with an outdoor movie theater. I think it would
be a great way to bond the Northwestern community.
Danielle: More Saferides. More cars and resources.
Nevil: I would suggest updating the bus signs to track shuttles and
buses.
Korri: I would want to update Patten gym. I would want it to be a
more full-scale gym. I think it would help with late night workouts
and on cold days when walking isn’t very good.
Isaac: I move to end question period.
Senator: 2nd
Alex: Oh and Maddy Low wanted to run. Here are some notes she
sent me to read:
o 1. I'm Maddy Low, senior theatre major, environmental policy
minor, Chinese minor. I'm the senator for StuCo.
o 2. I'm interested in the committee because I think a lot of NU
students feel like there's a lot of bureaucracy in the way of
their voices being heard about suggestions they have to make
NU a better place, things that don't fit into the established
channels, and the 10K is a great avenue for them.
o 3. I'm currently in a show that rehearses 4-5 nights a week
(hence why I'm not at senate this week) but weekends are
free and the show ends mid-November.
o 4. I've produced student theatre before so I have first-hand
experience with how far an amount like $10,000 can go on
campus, and the proudest I've felt as a producer was when I
was able to not only say "yes" to a team member's idea, but
be able to support it with money we raised. I've been
involved with all kinds of activities in my four years from
Jones Res College exec to marching band to theatre to
Engineers for a Sustainable World so I've got my feet in lots
of areas on campus and think I would be a good candidate to

raise awareness and have conversations about the 10K
initiative across the spectrum.
[Winners: Evan, Nevil, Maddy]
• David: Motion to move SL1314 up.
• Senator: Objection.
• Katie: We move to debate.
• David: Motion to suspend the rules and vote.
• Senator: Objection
• Katie: We are going to go to a vote.
• Katie: Now we are going to go for a vote on whether to move the
agenda item up. That’s two thirds, so we are going to see the new
business SL1314 now. We are in line for an authorship speech.
New Business: SL1314-02: Increasing Dance Marathon Accessibility
• DM Exec: First off thanks for changing the agenda. As a bit of
background information, we strongly feel that DM is one of NU’s
strongest organizations. No matter who you are you can participate,
but the $50 registration fee does stop people. We are asking for
some money from the Senate Pool. The students would have to
apply for a scholarship through CSI to help them register to dance.
This is a registration fee and should not be confused with the
money raised for DM. Students who get external scholarship will be
considered in the same way as people with Northwestern Financial
Aid. One of our goals is to help people sign up who aren’t able to
financially. Any of the $4000 that isn’t used will be given back to
the pool. And if it is used, that shows we do have need. And
according to ISBE the reason most students are not able to
participate financially is due to the registration fee.
• Senator: What if they can’t raise the $400?
• Janet: That is a difficult question, but we would refund the $50.
• Josh: We wouldn’t give back donations, but we would refund the
$50.
• Sean: How much do we have in the Project Pool?
• Katie: $15,000
• Taylor: Why don’t you just waive the fees?
• Josh: We need that money for the actually production of DM.

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•

•
•
•

•
•
•

•
•
•

Anna: And any money that is raised goes straight to the
beneficiary.
Taylor: Why don’t you get the productions money donated?
Janet: The money from registration fees does not cover all of the
production costs and we do raise money for it as well.
Nikki: Would this go to towards this year?
Anna: Yes, on the registration right now there is a box you can
check to talk to a CSI member.
Isaac: Is this something you are going to ask for every year.
Janet: We are looking for more sustainable resources.
David: We have talking to PTI right now. We are a sustainable
group, but we are in the position that we need those fees to make
DM possible.
Sean: Can you talk about your decision to be B-Status?
David: This is due to revenue fees. If we received a large amount of
money, it would be worth it. But since we would have to give back
80% of ticket sales (registration fees) to the fund, it does not make
sense for us right now to become and A-Status group.
Isaac: So you will never become A-Status?
David: That is not necessarily true. We are looking at adjusting the
rules to make it make sense for us.
Isaac: You guys get a lot of corportate sponsors. You would just
raise $1M instead of $1.4. So is that what you are asking from
Senate?
Janet: No that is not how our corporate sponsorships work.
Anna: It would be considered embezzlement if we didn’t have what
they donate for exactly go towards exactly towards that.
Sophia: Would you look at Student Affairs to get money, if it wasn’t
awarded tonight? Or would your return the money not used to the
Pool? So, if only 1K is given or even used?
Josh: Yes. We are making a conservative estimate.
David: The money could go back this quarter.
Natalie: Would it be helpful if I explained the SASF? This is a fund
for $5000 per quarter, and it is a fund that is used for any student
for any student group that demonstrates for need for financial aid.
The way that is vetted is that they fill out an application and sign

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

•
•

•

something that lets me go to Financial Aid to get a ranking. It is not
a perfect system, such as if you receive money from another source
for school. We are encouraging students to apply for this first, and
then this money that you are giving would help supplement that.
Katie: We are out of time.
David: I motion to move this to old business due to time
sensitivity?
Senator: Objection
David: We need the money this year and it would be negligible for
next year. Registration ends Friday.
Josh: Not totally negligible. But if the idea is about inclusion, we
need to make sure we have the money this week.
Senator: Would this make it old business and move to the end of
agenda?
Katie: Yes
Petros: You all probably set this time for registration a long time
ago, and you should have come last week.
Ani: As an old Speaker, I understand the importance of
parliamentary procedure. But, this idea has developed over the past
couple of days, and we have been trying to connect the dots. But
we are talking about inclusion here. We want to make sure DM is
representative of the whole student body.
Isaac: I don’t understand why you can’t move your deadline one
week to accommodate the procedure of Senate, because you are
asking for 1/3 of our money for the year.
Evan: I do understand what you are saying, but not making this old
business that makes this money useless.
Alex: I absolutely understand the objections, I normally would
agree, but this money will not be gone immediately. The money will
only be gone if students really need it. And isn’t that what the pool
is for?
Taylor: I think that one thing is being said is that this would be
good for our constituents. But, if I don’t talk to my constituents,
then I don’t know. Also, if registration for DM has increased each
year, then I am not sure why this would be necessary. And I think

extending registration due to finance concerns, that would be
creating more inclusivity.
• Sean: They came in here with a lot of background information and
data.
• David: If you were to talk to your constituents, they would say 2
things, “yes I do this money, or not I don’t.” So the money will be
spent or it won’t. And the bill is built for just that. As a long-time
member of ASG, I understand, but I don’t want this to affect
someone’s ability to participate in DM.
• Will: I think we need to be able to go back to our constituents.
• Mark: Authors, can you explain the claim that students don’t
participate because of the registration fee?
• David: ISBE analytics conducted it because they are much better at
it. I am not sure how they question is worded, and but I know that
need for a fund like this is needed. This would pay for 80 students,
and if 300 apply then we will take a look at they applications.
• Katie: Okay we are moving to vote.
[vote passes]
This will be considered as Old Business.
Winners: Maddy, Evan, and Nevil
General Order: SAFC Elections
• Katie: okay we will start with non-Senator elections first.
• Siddiq: Okay we will vote for non-Senator positions first. As a
member of SAFC, you work with large student groups with their
funding and programming. There are a lot of great plusses about
working on this committee. You need empathy, good
communication and purple pride.
• Sean: KC
• KC: accept
• Sean: Jason
• Jason: Accept
• Sean: Amrit
• Amrit: Accept
• Katie: introductions
• KC: I joined last quarter and I have had a great experience working
with student groups and I want to continue working with them.

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Working on the SAFC, I have noticed continuity working with the
student group is extremely important. Also, there is a huge learning
curve, and I think I am in a great position to help my groups
continue to be doing well.
Jason: I am a five quarter member of SAFC. I agree experience is
really great. I have help coordinate inter-group programming. And I
think that the relationships I have are strong and should continue.
Amrit: I am a senior and not to beat a dead horse but I have been
on the SAFC since my sophomore and have really enjoyed my time.
Alex: Motion to end question period
Senator: 2nd
Isaac: Motion to white ballot.
Senator: 2nd
Sean: I object.
Isaac: They are all wonderful and incumbents, and they should all
be voted in.
Sean: The group leaders have just been waiting for so long.
Katie: Okay we are now voting to move to a white ballot.
[Passes}
Katie: Okay, vote to white ballot.
[Passes]
Katie: We have 3 spots for senators? Nominations
Karley: Eliza
Eliza: I accept.
Jamie: Sean
Sean: I accept.
Ani: Tori
Tori: I accept.
Alex: Adam
Adam: 2nd
Petros: Will
Will: Accept
Senator: Ronak
Ronak: I accept.
Eiiza: I am a sophomore, RTVF, I am the A&O/Mayfest Senator, and
I want to be on SAFC because I have had a great experience with

•

•

•

•

•

•
•
•
•
•
•

my student groups and I want to apply that to other student
groups.
Sean: I’m Sean, junior, IFC Senator. I have been an AE for a year
now, so I do know the time commitment. I have worked with 3 very
unique groups, smaller and larger. I have helped the smaller groups
rise up to success, and the larger groups continue to succeed. As an
AE, I have learned a lot and gained a lot of experience that I think
is very necessary for this position.
Tori: I was a senator until the end of last year. I am the longest
standing member of the SAFC and have worked with all sorts of
student groups. And it has been the most rewarding experience. We
currently have a young board, and I would love to see it continue to
grow.
Adam: This is my second time to run for SAFC, and I am very
passionate about student groups. This year, I asked Siddiq how I
can pitch in. I have now talked to 15 student groups, asking how
can we help them as ASG. Because what is obvious to an AE, may
not be apparent to student group leaders. I have been a leader of
student group, and I think that experience would really aid me even
though I haven’t served on SAFC yet. I think I would be an
innovative and helpful AE.
Will: I am a junior and a College Republicans Senator. I have
worked at 2 banks, so I think I can combine my experience there
and with student groups and ASG.
Ronak: I am an off-campus senator. I want to give Northwestern a
bigger focus of the whole school. I am apart of model UN, and we
raise our $50,000 budget internally, as well as working on our
current deficit. I have lot of experience with student group
budgeting, and I want to help work with groups to get recognized,
because we have a lot of student groups that should be heard, and
Sophia: Years?
Sean: Junior
Tori: Senior
Adam: Junior
Will: junior
Ronak: Junior

•
•

•

•

•

•

•
•

•
•
•
•
•

•
•

Eliza: Sophomore
Siddiq: We do work a lot of hours but it is a selfless job. You have 2
midterms on Wednesday and it is Tuesday, and you have to attend
an SAFC meeting or else Blowout wont’ happen. When have you
Tori: I have a job offer, so school doesn’t matter anymore. I would
definitely prioritize the group over the school work and I have done
it before and I will do it again. It’s about programming using a lot of
money compared to one grade.
Adam: I interviewed this week with a student group leader when I
had to study for a midterm. I would make sure to make us. Also,
we could create an anonymous facebook persona, so all can take
advantage of asking questions.
Will: It is all about prior planning, so hopefully it won’t happen. But
if that were to happen, you need to make this commitment a
priority. I am apart of ISBE, and working with micro financing I had
a lot of reports to get in and prioritized ISBE.
Ronak: I would make sure I didn’t get into that issue. And my
grades only affect me, so I would have. I have 2 midterms
tomorrow, so I am experiencing that tonight.
Eliza: A&O Blowout, I had a lot of work, so did I have to pull a lot of
late nights. Yes, but it was worth it.
Sean: I think knowing what you are getting into before you do it
really is important. Being flexible with your schedule means good
communication. So working with. Also, I am a film major, so that is
not that burdening…were going to cut it off there.
Isaac: I motion to close question period
Alex: I object.
Isaac: I rescind
Amrit: Time commitments?
Adam: I am apart of the c. I will make sure that the student groups
that I work with will always be able to reach me. I have worked
with an AE and know the importance
NARS, NUCR, and Senator
AKPsi, and Model UN, but those aren’t too time consuming until
Spring for Model UN.

Eliza: Senator, DM and A&O committee members. I am good at
time management though, so I don’t see that as an issue.
• Sean: A&O and DM Committees, Deans Advisory Council, WW,
treasurer of fraternity. It sounds like lot, but I have been juggling
that for a while.
• Tori: Exec board for Mayfest, Case, Contemporary thought speaker
series, I graduate in winter too so I have
• Alex: concluding remarks?
• Will: I am experience and happy to help out
• Ronak: I think I am qualified.
• Eliza: I am the only sophomore and want to start early.
• Sean: I want to continue with my groups
• Tori: this has been one of my favorite experiences at Northwestern,
and I couldn’t imagine not being on the SAFC.
• Adam: I think experience is essentially and I have that to be a
great AE.
[Winners- Eliza, Tori, Sean]
Old Business: SL1314-02: Increasing Dance Marathon Accessibility
• DM Exec: I think at this point everyone understands the logistics.
From our understanding inclusion is the end goal for everyone and I
know that’s a priority for ASG. The project pool is really cool and
using all the money is ideal, because it shows that there is a need.
The competency about us does not have to be worried about,
because we are going through the Northwestern department that
always does this. We’ve been asked why we aren’t trying to get this
money from other places and it is because we know that ASG’s
mission matches this initiative. This is a great way not to ask
students to single themselves out, but to give them an opportunity
to ask anonymously. If we get this from ASG then we can use it to
show the administration later on.
• Isaac: Are you putting any of your own money to this? For instance,
you could have some kind of fundraiser for production expenses?
• Josh: For us it is really difficult to distinguish the fundraising for the
organization and the beneficiary. For legal purposes, we want to
keep fundraising for the beneficiary. We are not giving Senate Pool
money to Team Joseph and we are not going to ask people to
•

•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•
•

fundraise for a tent and not for the beneficiary. Our costs go mostly
to put on DM as a production. We haven’t put forth money to do
this, because we don’t have the capacity to do so.
David: We were cornered to raised our registration fees. We are
have a lot of expenses and pressures that made us raise our
registration fees 11%.
Taylor: You said this was a short-term solution but you are looking
towards longs term. What are some of those?
Janet: We are hoping that this will be a catalyst for other
Northwestern bodies to help out in the future.
Josh: This is a conversation that would need to happen in the
spring.
David: We have already talked to PTI. If you think that we think
this is our fund, then next year you can turn it down. This pool is
for causes just like this.
Isaac: Do you see these extenuating circumstances being an issue
in the future.
Janet: NAA will be helping a lot more in the future.
Arian: You said that you may go around the conventional revenue
sharing. Are those conversations already going on?
David: That is something we are looking to explore in the future.
But I may have misspoke, but we are looking at our options for
more sustainable sources of funding for issues like this in the
future.
Ronak: Was the 11% inflationary, or reasons why you aren’t getting
as much sponsorships?
Janet: It is mostly due to relationships over the years with sponsors
and donors.
Josh: Each year we work to make the event safer and that is costly.
David: the extra costs are mostly due to a new financial system
that we had to use that was unexpected. But Northwestern is
working to help create a better financial system.
Taylor: Why wouldn’t you just lower the cost for student for those
who can’t pay?
Janet: We need a registration at X level because the revenue from
registration helps cover a portion of our production costs.

•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
Good of
•
•

Taylor: Did you have an increase in dancers from last year?
Anna: Yes, but that doesn’t necessary mean it was from low income
students.
Isaac: I have an amendment. Be it enacted here assembled
“$2,000 be allocated from the ASG Senate Project Pool to provide
up to $2,000 of matching funds”. I think it is too early in the game
to allocate almost 1/3 of the Pool. I don’t remember even when we
took this money out of the budget, other than the fireworks at Dillo
Day. They said that they couldn’t raise funds that wouldn’t go to the
beneficiary. And I don’t think that is the case.
Senator: Did we spend the entire pool last year?
Katie: Not sure…
Alex: At the beginning of Spring, I think only $1000 was spent and
$5000 after that went to the project pool.
Isaac: I rescind.
Senator: Where did the fireworks money come from?
Sean: The fireworks are now sustainable.
Sarah: This is money goes towards production costs. This money
just offsets that for students.
Sean: They are B-status for a reason. On SAFC, we allocate $1.4M
pretty quickly. $20 for a B-status is a lot, and this would not be
much for a production like DM.
Siddiq: Did you work in a deficit last year since you didn’t get any
money last year from funding?
John: A lot of our funding comes from registration and a small fee
from our beneficiary.
Dillon: When would the unspent money get rolled back?
Natalie: This quarter?
David: Yes.
Katie: Move to a vote
[Vote passes]
the Order & Announcements
Alex: Reminder, please help me with t-shirts tomorrow. 3:30. PR
requirement.
Jamie: AChiO we are selling hot chocolate. Earth ball tournament
on Saturday.

David: Dance Marathon. Register for by Friday. IN all seriousness,
please help get the word out. This is why Senate is its size and is a
cross-section of campus. Those unwilling to pay, please tell them
that this is not an option.
• Sean: A&O is screening “The Way, Way Back” so come see a free
movie.
• Siddiq: Tomorrow is Northwestern’s food day. They are connected
to campus kitchens.
Roll Call and Adjournment
•

