Senate 2/19/2014

4/11/14 8:28 PM

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
• Katie: I will be reaching out to you about participating in DM kids
fair.
• Abby: None
• Ani: Nothing but what is in my exec board report.
• Alex: nu.n.chicago.org. Sign up for NU in Chicago. I will be leading
a group and maybe you could be in my group.
• David: 3 people, tell me what value is in being a senator?
o Alex: You get to represent kids on campus
o Steven: You get an insight into the bureaucracy and workings
of NU.
o Senator: You get to make impactful change.
Great. Please reach out to your student groups and tell them that.
We are extending student group senator
• Dillon: Are we allowed to have a club sports senators?
• David: I don’t know…yes. I would take it more seriously, or it would
be more compelling, if it was in an allegiance. You just have to be
NU recognized. The easiest way is to go onto the website and look
in the announcements stuff in the link.
• Anna: I had meetings this week about the Android double map app.
Should be fine. Had NUIT meeting this week. Basically Hulu + is
being piloting and we will see student feedback. They have been
using campus as a alternative to canvas. 60% of students said that
they wanted to change. Assessing data as well from coursera. Wi-Fi
updates during spring break.
• Sofia: I on a committee regarding the change to canvas. It will be a
phasing out process. Please send me a feedback if you have been in
a class that has used it or have something to say. They are meeting
tomorrow and soliciting ideas and other projects to look at, such as
video learning in classes. There is also a quality sub-committee
meeting tomorrow about picking furniture in the library. Let me
know if you have any suggestions. Last week we had a classroom
committee meeting last year. Kresge is going under a $90 million
overhaul starting next year.

Steven: Is it true it won’t be done until 2017.
Sophia: that could be true. And because of room allocation issues,
classes will start on 8:00am next year. I have been pushing for
8:30 or 9am-6pm. They are looking to enforce that only a certain
number of classes can be held at one time for space issues. We are
encouraging the registrar to move away from Caesar. Doing focus
groups for 3+E. Also apply for student faculty interaction grants!
• Kevin: Nothing new since last few weeks. Spread word about
community engagement grant if you know a group of people that
will engage the community in a positive way. Cats Come to Dinner
is this week. We met with some administrators about going to
Springfield soon. Check out exec board report for full projects.
• Noah: BY end of this week, we should have edits on unofficial
student guide this week. I want to give it to you guys first, so you
guys can give feedback.
• Julia: Committee working on expanding PR guide. We helped out
athletic office for talent show. Also shout out to Noah and Jacob
about faculty roundtables. Invite your friends and spread the word.
• Wes: Reminder if you live off campus, if you are interesting in
composting, we will send out a little survey.
Student Group Spotlight: Ubu Roi Recap
[Went well; 135 people in attendance collectively over 4 shows;
having trouble being recognized due to large number of recognized
theater groups]
• Alex: What show would you do if you were recognized?
• Scott: We have been talking about director petitions. We have
talked about putting up a series of 10-15 one acts with series. But,
if we don’t get recognized, we can’t put up another show. So we
have to solve that first.
Old Business: SL1314-18: In Order to Form a More Perfect Cabinet
• Alex: This is the move to make AVP and SGVP from a campus-wide
election process to the cabinet selections. These positions are peer
positions to the other cabinet positions and should be elected the
same way. These were elected this way because they were the only
cabinet members when the constitution was written. This will bring
us up to date. Also, it is contradictory of the
•
•

•
•

•
•
•

•
•

•

•
•
•
•

Alec: The Daily article was not in favor of this, comparing us to the
CCP. How would you respond?
Alex: Something to consider, anyone can write something for the
Daily.
o Ani: It was a column. What the columnist said had value,
minus the comparison. What he was trying to say that we
should take role of a student union fighting for student rights.
We are more of a facilitator role. What our structure is meant
to do is not march for every issue, but to pick which issues
are affecting the most of campus and fight for that through
letters, ASG Surveys, meeting with administration. We are
looking as an exec board of passionate people that fight with
technocratic means.
I think he was more trying to grab the heartstrings of
Northwestern. And I think this change will help get people we need.
Alex: How many non-ASG students came to Constitutional forum.
Alex: one, my girlfriend.
David: I am going to propose and amendment in the next
legislation, that ! of Senate can vote to not hold a forum. WE
amend the constitution multiple times a year, and the only time I
have seen someone outside ASG come to the forums in regard to
Senate reform.
Noah: Is there any concern that making this position app based,
that it will limit that candidate pool?
Alex: I can’t provide that many details, but having sat on the
cabinet selection committee two years now, but we have people
apply who aren’t on the committee for those positions.
Ani: Also, there is a much more rigorous app this year that will
force those on the committee to spell out what they did on and off
the committee.
Senator: What positions are directly voted on?
David: Pres, EVP, AVP, SGVP, and RHA.
Senator: How do you balance what student groups or the university
wants with what you think that will be good for the board.
Ani; I don’t think it is a question of how many positions are elected,
versus what positions. As a senator, you want to be close to your

•
•

•

•
•

•

•

•
•
•

constituents. And I don’t know if this would be the best positions for
direct election.
Serene: Don’t you think there is something to having a diverse
opinion on the exec board?
David: I think that is a great point. I agree that there should be
disagreement. I don’t the way that is happens right now is very
sensical. It is hard on a pragmatic level to promote someone to do
something they don’t want to do. But the agendas that people are
paying attention to are the President and EVP agendas. So this will
not squash discontent, but have the selection committee ask what
do you think of the agenda that was elected.
Sofia: I also think viewpoints are apart of it, but also the skill set
for the position. You will have some alignment of opinion, but there
will certainly be disagreement, as there currently is on committees.
But it is the leadership qualities that really need to be set apart.
Jane: Why do you think that the selection committee would be
better at selecting the VPs than the campus?
David: Well for one voter turnout. Also, a lot of people vote based
upon friend circles, a small sound bite, or the Daily. I think we can
have a more detailed and thorough discussion about who would be
best. I think when you are trying to convince 8,000 people to elect
you, you need a more concise pitch than to those who know more
about who need to be elected into the role.
Ani: Also, look at who is left for them to function. The President and
EVP more set the vision. The VPs carry out more day to day
operations and do bulk of work. So should the whole cabinet would
be elected? They are doing the work of carrying out the vision set
up by the President and Vice President.
Sofia: For me personally, it about outcomes. It is less about seeing
a platform and more about seeing the change that the Vice
president has done.
Jane: Motion to extend question period by 5 minutes.
Alex: Objection. It has already turned into debate.
[Voted to end of question]
Parag: I would like to motion to make this a open committee
process for AVP and SGVP.

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

•

•
•

•
•

David: Can I ask a clarifying question? Like are you asking to see
minutes, or know applicants?
Parag: Just know names of the applicants?
Ani: For all the cabinet positions?
Parag: Is that germane?
David: Can you make it optional for the candidates?
Ani: This isn’t even in the language of this legislation. That is all in
the Code.
Katie: Okay so that would be a Code change and we are not in line.
David: That would be something great to bring up in a week.
Ani: There are some Code changes in the bill, so if you can come up
with the language now we can add it?
Parag: Motion to recess for 5 minutes.
[Division-failed]
Katie: Con speech on entire bill.
Alex: As the off-campus whip, I am appointed by the caucus. I feel
that my role in ASG because it is a delegate position and thus I
would need to reach out to. Alex, based upon what I have heard on
campus, the students think this a bad idea. And if that is what the
students want, we should vote that way.
Lauren: Everyone I talked to were for this bill. The only concern
was who would be selecting the VPs. And after I explained the
process, they all were in favor.
Isaac: I think we should have more elected positions in general, but
I think the inherent issue is what the point of an election. The voted
positions are for vision, and the selected positions should be to
carry out that vision. And I see that fitting for these VP roles.
Katie: Con
Sarah: Last year, there were 4 positions elected by Senators and 4
elected by the campus. 2 of the Senate elections were moved to a
selection committee, and I raised this issue last year. And now that
we are in the same position, we have to look at why they were
originally set up like this in the first place.
Katie: Pro
Petros: this is a good move. To have 2 cabinet members elected at
large and not the rest is not good. A lot of positions on cabinet

•
•
•

•

•
•
•

•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•

should be voted on at large, like D&I. But this makes more sense. It
is not necessarily democratic, but it works.
Noah: Also, the two most directly elected positions are on selection
committee. Also the real cabinet are tapped by president and EVP.
Ani: POI- the President and EVP are not the majority vote on the
selection committee.
Parag: So selecting these positions, does not solve problem of voter
turnout, so we should solve that problem. I am not saying this
wouldn’t work, but it wouldn’t solve the problem.
Ronak: Petros said that we have to balance the democracy in ASG,
and where is that line. If we pass this, the only directly elected
positions would be President and Vice President and RHA Senators.
So to be more democratic, shouldn’t we make all the positions
campus wide.
Katie: Pro
David: I just wanted to clarify that the low voter turnout was just to
clarify much of the campus is not engaged.
Sofia: If you look at the Code, the job of these VPs are to lobby.
The Senators are there to represent, but my job is lobby. I am
there to work on items that students want me to work on. When
you lose the ability to meet student concerns, the VP position is
useless, which did happen 2 years ago.
Isaac: Motion to amend, I would like to add “2 students elected by
Senate.” I want to leave it open, if there is interest outside of
Senate.
Senator: 2nd
Senate: objection
Isaac: The big problem is taking away the power from the students
and this could be potentially help.
Petros: Senate still has to confirm candidate anyway. Majority of us
have to agree, so I find the additions redundant.
o Ani: Actually it is 2/3.
Katie: Pro speech on amendments.
Parag: I think that is would make the process more democratic.
Alex: Motion to add undergraduate and must be outside ASG
Senate.

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•

Senator: Divide the question.
Alex: PQ
Katie: Okay let’s vote on undergraduate.
[amendment passes]
Alex: “two undergraduate students who are not involved in ASG”
Senator: 2nd
Senator: Objection
Alex: The objections to the amendment was that we already have
to confirm, so lets add new people.
Katie: con
Serene: While I agree that students should be on it, maybe have it
be one Senator and one non-Senator.
Katie: Pro speech
Alex: I think it should be 2 non-Senators, is because it will go to
Senate anyway.
Dana: Question: If the selection committee is not full, can you still
hold the selection?
Ani: You just need to meet quorum.
Alex: I rescind my amendment.
Katie: All in favor on moving to PQ.
[Passes]
Katie: Okay we are moving to a vote.
[Division-26, 7, 1]
Katie: Con speech
Alex: The concern still stands we are taking away democracy from
the students, and 2 (most likely Senators)
Sarah: I think this comes down to priority. Whether that is making
the process more efficient, or implementing student opinion. We
have to make sure that this is in line with the purpose of ASG.
Katie: Pro
Alec: I think by taking away these elections, people will be able to
pay more attention to President and EVP.
Eliza: I think in an ideal situation, we hope that students are
looking at the issues, but that is not true. People vote based on
stickers and how the campaign looks.
[Debate extended by 5 minutes]

Ronak: If the issue that the students are engaging in the elections,
then we are arguing that the students are not engaged enough to
vote on any members? Any speakers can talk about that.
• Dana: I can speak to this. The EVP and President have received
almost double the amount of votes in prior years. Last year, they
had to vote for all positions, but people could have been just voting
because they wanted to vote for President and EVP.
• Adam: We need to address voter apathy, but I think this is a halfassed was to do this. So let’s just vote on the bill.
• Katie: Con speech. Okay final pro.
• Noah: I think many of the cons are about not this in general, but
ASG as a whole. I think there are plenty of ways for student voice
to be implemented, like senate confirmations. I think it is more
democratic to vote this in to align with the peer positions.
• Katie: Okay we are moving to a vote
Division
• Petros: Motion to vote by secret ballot.
• Petros: I withdraw.
[30, 5, 3-Passed]
Old Business: SL1314-19: Cleaning the Constitution: Constitution Review
Winter 2014
• Ani: It comes to Preamble, replacing Alex (it’s Katie), and mention
Code in constitution, changed some to active voice. We also defined
some newer cabinet members.
• Sarah: Motion to end question period.
• Katie: Moving to debate.
• David: Motion to amend. This will pragmatically or allow to move to
eliminate a constitutional forum by ! vote. It takes 2/3 of Senate
to approve the changes. So to eliminate the forum, it should be a
higher vote. A lot of changes in the Constitutional is procedural.
And if we hold a forum, no one will attend and it doesn’t make
sense to hold it. You would still need 2 weeks before it is voted on.
It is not worth the humiliation, the resources or the room in Norris
that no one will attend.
• Isaac: So would you be open to the idea to make this unanimous?
•

David: Yes that’s fine. I think it should be !, but if that’s a huge
thing.
• Isaac: I object. Motion to make it a unanimous vote. “waived with a
unanimous vote of Senators.” If it is more procedural, it will be
democratic and it will be unanimous, but if it is a bigger issue, a
forum should be held.
• Senator: If someone though just votes against it out of principle,
like you often do about moving things to old business out of
principle, that is defeating the point of the amendment.
• Dillon: Motion to change it to 9/10.
• Senator: Objection.
• Senator: PQ
• Lauren: So we are voting on 9/10, then it will revert back to
unanimous, and then vote on ! versus unanimous.
• Katie: yes. Okay so if you vote yes on this, then we vote on !
versus 9/10.
[Passes]
Okay, so now vote in favor of 9/10 over 3/4.
[Division-16, 17, 2 FAILS]
• Katie: Amendment fails, it reads !.
• Alex: PQ
• Katie: Okay we will vote on the amendment as a whole right now.
[amendment passes]
• Katie: We will now return to debate on the whole bill.
• Isaac: PQ
• Senator: 2nd
[legislation passes]
Old Business: SL1314-21: Codifying University Student Advisory Board:
Everybody was Kung Fu Fighting (Those ‘Cats Were Fast as Lightning)
• Sofia: This bill is very straight forward. All 6 schools have SAB. We
all met last Thursday and it went very well. I just want to codify
this. This is actually an old bill that was not transitioned. This would
help with lobbying across the schools. And it gives the group more
communication.
• Isaac: PQ
• Senator: 2nd
•

Katie: We will move to debate.
Isaac: PQ
Senator: 2nd
[Passes]
Old Business: SR1314-06: Support for Bankruptcy Protection for Students
• Lauren: This is what we brought up last week. This is to increase
bankruptcy projection for students for student loans. For right now,
it is possible to have your student loans included in you bankruptcy
statement, it is very hard. This would just make it easier. Originally,
student loans were held to the same standard as other loans. It was
gotten rid of over time due to lobbying from the bank industry. We
are just asking for the same projections for these types of loans.
• Alex: Would you by any chance how much students have on
average in loans from NU?
• Lauren :I think $30,000
• Isaac: that is just an average for students who have loans?
• Parag: Do you think this would limit the number of loans given out?
• Isaac: That is a definite concern with the way supply and demand
work. The fear might be interest rates might go up. Federal loan
interest cannot go up, but private loans can. But federal loans have
a built-in need detector.
• Lauren: This resolution also states that the student loans go under
the Truth and Lending Act, which states to explain the process for
loan selection and how the interest rates are picked. We are not
trying to take away students’ education, just give them more
projection.
• Alex: PQ
• Senator: 2nd
• Senator: Object.
• Katie: We are now going to vote on moving to PQ
[Passes]
Okay, we will vote on the entire bill.
[Division-17, 10, 6 PASSES]
Old Business: SR1314-07: Support for Exemption of State Student Loan
Programs
•
•
•

Isaac: This is just saying, that if a state provides a state loan
program it should be regulated like a federal loan program.
• Alex: What are objections about this issue?
• Isaac: I am not aware of any right now, other than just against it.
• Dana: How is it differently regulated?
• Lauren: One way is how colleges can promote these loans. These
loans also have much lower interest rates, but it seems kind of
fishy. And this would just help regulate it.
• Alex: PQ
• Senator: 2nd
[Passes]
Old Business: SR1314-08: Support for Ending Sequester Cuts on Higher
Education
• Lauren: Sequestering came to be so that congress could come
together and create a budget. And higher education took a large
hit. All 8 programs, besides the Pell Grant, were hit. Federal Work
Study for example were hit, as well as many others. I have exact
numbers if you guys were interested. Research aid were also
affected. This may seem removed. But may of those who work in
labs were also cut. So if you work as an undergraduate in a lab, if
you are paid from work study or a grant, funding was cut.
• Alex: How were Iraq and Afghanistan veterans affected?
• Lauren: It is grant for those whose parents were killed or injured in
the army do get aid and don’t get as much funding now.
• Alex: That’s bullshit.
• Ani: Come on guys.
• Lauren: We agree too.
• Senator: PQ
• Senator: 2nd
• Katie: we will move to a vote.
o [Passes]
Good of the Order & Announcements
• Alex: if you are interested in coming to ETHS tomorrow, come find
me.
• Noah: Delt is holding a laser tag fundraiser Feb. 25th, so come.
•

Serene: Discovering Islam is next week, we have a lot of events so
check it out. We funded it.
Roll Call and Adjournment
•

