Senate 2/26/2014

4/11/14 8:29 PM

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
• Katie: The last Senate of this quarter will be March 12th. So if you
have something to bring up before then, bring it up soon.
• Alex: We are presenting 10K ideas today. The CCE Day in Chicago,
the link is in my exec board report, is happening this weekend.
Katie and I are leading groups, it’s a great chance to see Chicago.
• Ani: Please take a good look at the Sexual Assault Policy Reform
Resolution. I also regret to inform you that Neel had to resign for
personal reasons. A new appointment process will take place as
normal and I will sit as his replacement until then.
• David: I am emailing groups right now that will not have to
interview for SGAC. 8 groups have automatic approval. The rest of
interviews will take place Saturday 11-2pm. 19 apps were received
for 15 seats.
o Alex: Who sits on the selection committee?
o David: You, with the other caucus whips, Parliamentarian,
Speaker, FVP, SGVP
• Alex: Oh something from Kevin and Isaac, they wanted me to
prompt you guys with judging applicants for the grants. It would be
a great chance to get involved in the process and see how
connections are made between Evanston and NU.
• Ani: Also, B-Status funding is new business this week. One group
will be having a late submission and we will review
• Noah: Our ad contest is seeking funds. We are still working on
Study Abroad Guide…more cities completed. Please, please help me
edit the unofficial student guide. This is very important as
representatives of NU Students to help influence and edit this
guide.
• Ani: The FVP and SGVP apps will be live for a week following the
end of Senate. If you have questions about FVP, contact Siddiq, and
if you have questions about SGVP, let me know and I can try to
answer it or point you in the right direction. Just some background,
the FVP helps allocate most of the 1.4 million SAF to A-status
groups. The VP works with a group of Senator and non-Senator.

The SGVP does similar work with B and T-Status groups with a
smaller sum of money. They work on student group programming,
SOFO training, recognizing and derecognizing groups.
o Lauren: If we pass the constitutional amendment, will the
SAVP application also go out tonight?
o Ani: Yes. We are also releasing the Chief of Staff application
tonight. We selected it last year during the regular transition
cycle, but it doesn’t make sense that the chair of the selection
committee be transitioning itself.
o Harrison: Did we vote to change it?
o David: It is not specified in the Code, so we just changed it.
General Order: Release of Applications for Financial Vice President, Vice
President for Student Groups, and Chief of Staff
General Order: 10K Committee Presentation
• Ideas:
o A More Comfortable Library
o Much Money in Evanston
o Wildcat Statue
o Northern Lights
o Lakefill Swingset
• Senator
• Korri: Is the library supplementing that funding? I feel like I saw
signage about new chairs to “try out!”
• Anna: I don’t think so, but the university also uses these
suggestions as a means to find out what students are wanting on
campus
• Alex: The library was actually super pumped that students cared
about this.
• Senator: For the swingset, would there be budget for a trampoline?
• Alex: No, sorry.
• Senator: When you mean “Northern Lights,” do you mean string
lights or more lights?
• Julia: Just string lights were included in the financial analysis.
• Senator: For munch money in Evanston, have you talked to
business that they will subsidize or are you just assuming.

Evan: NO we haven’t but JPK assured us that businesses she has
talked to are very interested.
• Katie: Okay we can move to vote on all of the ideas or can vote to
strike.
• Lauren: I thought we only took 3?
• Katie: At least 3.
• Harrison: Motion to move to vote on all of the ideas.
Old Business: SL1314-20: Helping Student Groups, One Position at a Time
• Ani: SO this came to Senate 2 weeks ago. We chatted of course
with FVP and SGVP and GEs and AEs. WE looked at the charge of
these positions and we are actually fulfilling the needs of the
student groups we are serving. We want to make sure that we are
advocating for them, acting as a resource, anything to improve
their abilities to function as a student group. Some we can do,
some faculty, and some as a collaboration. Based upon what we
saw, a Student Activities VP was seen as necessary to take care of
these more blanket problems that affect all student groups. This
position does not overlap with the student group funding and
programming work that the GEs and AEs do, but
• Alex: Can you give some examples of some projects this committee
would work on?
• Ani: Where will student groups practice when Kresge is full. What
about storage for student groups? How are is booking and
reservations as a whole for students, do they need to pay?
• Steven: Was this due to the working groups findings?
• Ani: It was in conjunction, but this project to help improve student
groups is huge. We need a committee dedicated to working towards
this.
• Steven: If the working group finds we need a third tier of funding,
would this group take that over?
• Ani: No, I don’t think so. This group is not charged with dealing
with funding. But, it is our job as a whole to make sure we are
serving groups to the best of our abilities as an organization.
• Alex: You mentioned you had been working on the app for this
position, what are some examples of questions you are going to
ask?
•

Ani: [Application posted] This application is very different than the
FVP and SGVP. It is more in line with that of the Services VP or
other cabinet positions, as that is in line with the position.
• Senator: Motion to end question period.
• Ani: Motion to amend all amendments in green. Siddiq pointed this
out. The FVP is the official auditor of ASG, they are our AE. If there
is a vacancy, the most senior AE would take this responsibility. For
the SAVP, the 25-hour a week work load would be significantly
increased if they have to attend all SAFC and SGC committees, so
this allows the SGVP and FVP tell them they are not need at a
committee. The next one is to adjust the members of the selection
committee, . Same thing for FVP. The last is to reiterate that the
FVP is the receiver of the SAF funds.
• Senator: Motion to end debate period.
• Senator: PQ
• Katie: Okay, we will move to a vote
[passes unanimously]
New Business: B and T-Status Funding
• Ani: There are a lot of groups applying, like 50, and some groups
that still need to get apps in due to our error. So they will be
reviewed later this week. The committee has a full work load, but
we are moving forward. Questions?
• Lauren: so how many B-Status groups are there? More than 50
right?
• Ani: About 100 but they don’t always apply for funding.
• Alex: What did Abunav get no funding?
• Alex: ASG funding is supposed to be for the entire community. And
they asked for money for costumes or internal needs.
• Ani: And if there is any discretion between if funding would be for
internal or external needs, such as it would be okay for funding for
costumes used in a new show or something, we would look at that.
New Business: SR1314-09: Sexual Assault Policy Reform Resolution
• Noah: this is a resolution that echoes the petition put on
change.org, particularly how we deal as a university with sexual
violence. The first part is why as northwestern we should care, and
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•

the be it resolved highlights and explains what is in the petition
online. I can further elaborate on that later.
Parag: we also added a clause about Professor Ludlow and his
dismissal.
Noah: No we don’t have it in there.
Senator: No, it was in there this morning.
Noah: It was an error on my part. I sent in the wrong draft.
Senator: Can we add in back in?
Noah: We can discuss that in question period.
Adam: Has he been found guilty yet?
Parag: He was charged with sexual misconduct. The board of
trustees found him guilty, but they found in a new way to
Laruen: Have you heard of any mishandlings on Northwestern’s
campus specifically?
Noah: No I haven’t. But the point of this is to make sure in all
future cases that the correct measures and protections are taken.
Parag: There are a lot of cases at other universities?
Senator: What would happen if this happens again during the
investigation process?
Parag: They would be suspended.
Noah: Look and sections 4 and on, on the petition. It elaborates
more about the processes.
Adam: What might be helpful for next week would be to send out
the findings of the Ludlow case.
Lauren: So [READ OUT CHANGE] was that there this morning?
Noah: That was due to conversations I had with exec members.
Professor Ludlow has been suing for deformation, and I didn’t want
to put us in danger.
Lauren: So that would also make students liable as well?
Noah: Based upon the language of the petition, I don’t think so. It
is really specific.
Jane: Motion to move this to old business.
Senator: Objection
Katie: We are going to move to debate. Jane.
Jane: I think this is a very important topic and in a very present
light right now.

•

•
•

•
•

•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Alex: I couldn’t agree with you more. By not passing it tonight, it
will be in the news cycle for 2 weeks and it will gather a larger
storm on support that this speech deserves.
Senator: PQ
[passes to old business]
Senator: Motion to amend. I want to change the word “crime.” We
don’t really use that word on campus. Actually, just strike “crimes
of”
Jamie: We also need to define what it means to commit sexual
assault.
Lauren: Now with the proposed amendment, if the university finds
someone committed sexual assault, what steps will they take. I am
just a little confused.
Jane: I can answer this. You have to specify court of law. This is for
jus the university.
Parag: This is just this for the university.
Katie: How about we amend to say “as defined by the University?”
Would you like to move to a vote?
[Vote passes]
Alex: Motion to amend. In the be it resolved section, I think we
should put Peter Ludlow’s name back in the bill. It is not making
any accusations, just saying that we aren’t comfortable on campus.
Strike “ any member…” and put Peter Ludlow.
Senator: 2nd
Robert: Objection.
Robert: I am not opposed to putting his name back in, but I want to
keep the original clause.
Alex: I change my
Lauren: Would that clause include anyone who has ever been found
guilty of this or only in the future.
Noah: The reason we chose community member is because these
procedures and policies protect not just students.
Jane: This might go against what UHAAS is passing, which might
later cause problems.
Jamie: Motion to divide question.

Katie: okay we will vote on Ludlow’s name and then community
members.
• Jane: I am worried that adding his name would put ASG at risk of
• Petros: Also, in terms of this perpetuating in the future, it might be
too specific keeping his name. This would make it more general.
• Alex: This guy doesn’t scare me. If you guys are worried about a
law suit, vote that way. But I am not.
• Steven: I think keeping the resolution as universal as possible
would be best. Keeping in a name might just make it seem
reactionary.
• Franco: I think it is unprofessional to take shots at a single guy.
• Senator: PQ
• Senator: 2nd
• Alex: Motion to vote by roll call.
• Petros: Motion to vote by secret ballot.
• Alex: Withdrawn.
• Petros: Withdrawn.
[passes]
• Katie: We are in line for the next amendment?
• Alex: My amendment? Withdrawn
• Jane: Motion to amend community member to staff or faculty
member.
• Senator: 2nd
• Senator: PQ
[passes]
• Senator: Motion to PQ
• Senator: PQ
[passes]
Good of the Order & Announcements
• David: DM Trivia! Come tonight! If you are dancing in DM, full
money deadline was today. But you still can fundraise.
Roll Call and Adjournment
•

