Senate 2/12/2014

4/11/14 8:27 PM

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
• Ani: We are piloting joint office hours this quarter. FMO in the black
house tomorrow. That meeting is open to everyone. Please come
by, if you have any questions, please just text me or call. If you are
a member of student group that is interested in doing this, just let
me know.
• Alex: Hey guys. From what Rob talked about, we are helping plan
the Fall NU Day in Chicago. We have room for one more. We would
love for that person to be a Senator. Preferably a sophomore or
junior. Email me if you are interested. Also, I put a question in my
exec board report a question that I would like you to answer. We
are still working on Ignite and the freshmen first year experience.
We are meeting next week, and I would really like your input to
bring to the table. 10K presenting next week.
• Anna: Shadowing is happening this week, so you will hear about
that last week. We met about Double map this week. The ASG
basketball game is March 6. A sign up will be coming out tonight. IT
is great chance to talk to administrators in the athletics office.
Check out rest of projects in report.
o Lauren: Do you know when SPAC parking garage will open.
o Anna: Parking structural will be functional in next couple of
weeks.
• Sofia: Kresge is going under full reconstruction and I meeting with
administration about logistics. CTEC pilot, if you have any general
feedback, please send me your general feedback. We want to
rebuild platform for students and geared towards students. We are
have discussion about peer academic advising for premed students.
Lots of projects happening.
• Kevin: Community Engagement Grant application is live. Please let
students know about it to apply. Fulfill your PR requirement and
flyer. ‘Cats Come to Dinner-100 people signed up and we are
looking for hosts. Alderman meeting on the 27th on campus. IT will
be in Louis Hall and 2 are coming.

Noah: We got our data from the ASG survey and we analyzed it.
We are drafting legislation for getting money to start an app. Let
me know if you are interested getting involved.
• Julia: Please encourage you and your friends to sign up for special
topic round tables. We have 5 for the rest of the quarter.
• Wes: We are working on green consulting and green accreditation
for students. Sending out survey about interest in an off-campus
composting service.
Special Order: Rob Donahue, Associate Director of the Center for Civic
Engagement
[No Questions]
Special Order: Dr. Lesley-Ann Brown, Director of Campus Inclusion and
Community
• Senator: What date is this happening?
• Posse: April 4-6
o Social movements in the 21st Century. What social
movements have happened and what do they look like now.
How can we make changes through the channels students
currently use, like social media. This our first year at
Northwestern, but the Posse Plus Retreat is annual and there
is always a topic. Every university with a Posse has a retreat
• Sofia: Who will be there.
• Posse: There will be students and faculty, we are all one
community.
• Senator: Will other students will be invited outside ASG?
• Posse: Yes, we are trying to engage as many students as possible.
100 students can go and there is a waiting list after this.
• Leslie: This is basically like sustained dialogue for 2 days. I know
some of you are involved in that, and that is out of my office. I
would love to see some of you all there. There will be 200 people
there and it really should be a great event. It is a very comfortable
space. Please share it with the groups you represent.
General Order: FVP/SGVP Application Release Date
• Ani: The Code is actually pretty lax about FVP and SGVP
applications and process. The application must be released by 5th
week and then be nominated and presented to Senate by the last
•

week. This is good because we have some flexibility. We ask to
move this back 2 weeks, because we have a constitutional forum
coming and position might be changing. We don’t want to release
an application if things are subject to change regarding the
positions. These positions are filled before the rest of the board,
because of funding cycles and they are supposed to be separate
from the rest of the selection process.
• Alex: Do we need to motion?
• Ani: It is an up/down vote.
• Lauren: If we wait 2 weeks, when would you release the app and
hold interviews?
• Ani: Applications released Feb 26, due march 5, and confirmed
march 12. All of this is still by the end of the quarter as in the Code.
[Vote passes]
Old Business: SR1314-04: ASG Supports Trans* Students
• Isaac: This is product of the Associate of the Big 10 Student
conference. It was a conference for all BIG 10 student
governments. A lot was discussed and these resolutions were
drafting. This is a resolution for trans* students. It is for student
support for students who don’t fit into the binary.
• Petros: The trans* is an underrepresented community, so this is
coming as a great time.
• Alex: Previous question
• Senator: 2nd
• Katie: We can just skip debate. Any object?
[Vote passes]
Old Business: SR1314-05: Resolution Supporting the Affordable College
Textbook Act
• Lauren: This is also a product of the conference. This is a resolution
in support of the affordable college textbook act that is being
debated in Congress. The idea is to make student textbooks more
affordable. NU students spends about $600 more than the average
college student on books per year. This is about a push towards
open source textbooks. This helps with the reprinting of editions
and students have to purchase additions. With open source, you

would just update the online version which students can view or
request to print. This program would be developed through grants.
• Adam: Is this promoting textbook companies to go open source, or
is this a push for NU not use company that is not open source?
• Isaac: This is more just a grant to encourage the start to open
source printing. Then we create a new competition of textbooks to
go open source.
• Sarah: these grants would for those who write textbooks?
• Lauren: It is for the universities. Ohio States has a program like
this. It is for higher institutions that would use the grant money to
launch programs with professors.
• Isaac: The Ohio State project looks like they
• Kevin: Senator Dick Durban also proposed this.
• Ani: Yes I was talking some administrators that would love to see
something like this pass.
• Kevin: this is something that we would talk about at other
conferences and it would affect the issues we discuss.
• Harrison: What impact does us passing this actually have?
• Isaac: Very little to be honest. But all the schools in the Big 10
collectively will have impact. And if Senator Durban is also behind
something like this too, we are increasing relations with him as
well.
• Ronak: Where is the grant program coming from.
• Isaac: it is coming from the act, so tax money essentially. The pilot
program is the act.
• Alex: PQ
• Senator: 2nd
[Vote passes]
New Business: SL1314-20: Helping Student Groups, One Position at a Time
• Ani: This is an idea that started last year and was dormant for a
while. After the past few days with Siddiq and Neel and their
committees. And now it is coming to you. The additional member to
the board will help us help you and give the resources for student
groups that they need on campus. We are proposing is creating a
3rd position to create a student group resources team. We like to
stay that we are helping student groups with our work and

allocation of $1.3 million each year. The VP for student activities
would be focused specifically on resources. They are going to look
at what we are offering student groups and how can we answer
them. They will answer questions like are presidents and vice
presidents properly trained, are there enough practice spaces? Neel
and Siddiq want to work on these projects but are very busy
working with their 150 student groups. So this
• Alex: What does an ideal candidate look like?
• Ani: Someone with some experience with SAFC or SGC or president
or treasurer of a student group on campus. We want someone who
has navigated the current system. This position will be our liaison
for lobbying for student groups on campus.
• Alex: Someone who is able to zoom out and see it not only from
their student groups experiences but all student group.
• Jane: Can you explain your rationale regarding the selection
process?
• Ani: This is a peer position, and that is how most of our positions
are selected. Also it will help with consistency regarding the
selection of the FVP and SGVP as well.
• Lauren: Would it follow the same timeline as the FVP and SGVP?
• Ani: That is the idea. You can also apply to multiple. The
constitutional forum will be Monday.
New Business: SL1314-21: Codifying University Student Advisory Board:
Everybody was Kung Fu Fighting (Those ‘Cats Were Fast as Lightning)
• Sofia: This bill is for adding another role for the AVP. For the past
year, I have been meeting with the 6 SAB. All school has one. I
have been sitting with them since last spring, and earlier in January
I brought together all of the boards. For them to cohesively
represent all students, it will need to be a cross-school conversation
to match the cross-school students. I had this conversation with all
SAB about codifying this meetings. This actually was an idea that I
found in the archives. SO I would like to add it to the Code for AVP,
who should act as the lobbyer across all the schools. They would
meet at least monthly.
• Alex: Can you give us an idea of the type of things you discussed at
your last meeting?

Sofia: We talked about creating consistency across the boards, such
as aligning their election processes. We also talk about the
effectiveness of meeting the needs of students across all the
schools.
New Business: SR1314-06: Support for Bankruptcy Protection for Students
• Lauren: In most consumer loans, actually all, if you fall into
circumstances where you can pay back a loan, and you find yourself
in a situation where you can’t pay back the loan, you can file for
bankruptcy. There are however many caveats. You though aren’t
able to do that for student loans. This resolution supports the idea
that students loans have the same protection as other student
loans. This also supports statute of limitations on student loan debt.
• Alex: An argument that I have heard in opposition, they can’t
repossess your diploma, like you could a car or house. It also might
make banks less willing to hand out loans. Do you have anything to
say in response?
• Isaac: Not everything can be repossessed, like a vacation. And this
is the most important thing you should spend money on, education.
• Lauren: It also is not that difficult to get a credit card, I think I
don’t have one, and it is not that hard to rack up debt.
• Isaac: Student loans are also federal loans and this used to be this
way.
Alex: Yeah and they were really hard to get. Once they stopped
applying bankruptcy, it became much easier to get loans. Sorry this
isn’t debate period though.
• Senator: What other schools have passed this?
• Isaac: The Big 10 conference passed it. I don’t know about
individual governments.
• Parag: What is the practical policy implication of us passing this
• Isaac: It is mostly just to pass pressure for lobbying.
New Business: SR1314-07: Support for Exemption of State Student Loan
Programs
• Isaac: Currently, the federal government only recognizes student
and private loans that they give. Certain states also have similar
programs. The idea behind this will just say that the state program
loans will hold the same recognition of federal loans.
•

Lauren: It will help provide lower interest rates. Ohio has a program
like this as well.
New Business: SR1314-08: Support for Ending Sequester Cuts on Higher
Education
• Lauren: IT was the beginning of last year that we fell of the fiscal
cliff. These sequester cuts were in result. One of the areas that was
most affected was education. $3 billion was cut. And for a unveristy
like NU, our research is dependent on this federal money. So a lot
of research has been cut across the board.
• Isaac: NU receives $500 million from the federal government each
year.
• Senator: How much did they cut from NU?
• Isaac: I don’t know
• Will: It was 15% of the $3 billion.
• Jane: Why should I care as an undergrad? Most of the money goes
to graduate students?
• Isaac: these do affect undergraduates and especially seniors who
want to stay and do research.
• Lauren: This also applies for undergrads who work with professors
for work study or not.
• Will: Why should we get special treatment with the Sequestion Act?
• Isaac: We have a lot of stake in it personally. And having a lot of
the Big 10 support this, it will apply pressure to stop the education
sequestion act.
• Senator: Do you have numbers for how this has affected NU
specifically?
• Isaac: I don’t have stats on that.
• Steven: I have heard about this and we haven’t been affected yet.
But schools outside the top 15 schools have been hit noticeably.
• Will: But why would this be not cut in the sequestion act?
• Isaac: This is what we can most applicably argue for.
• Noah: So if we pass this, are our lobbyists going to use this or is
this just in case if they do support this? Is this on the agenda?
• Isaac: As you know, Ani meets with lobbyists and it will be on the
agenda.
Good of the Order & Announcements
•

Adam: American Studies and Political Unions are holding a panel
about block on Israel studies.
• Parag: Like NU Cuisine on Facebook. Harrison and I are on the
student board of directors and it is a good way to spread
information.
• Will: I am with MARS and we are making an awareness and support
video so go and participate really quickly.
• David: I should have said this earlier, but reapply for your seat!
Apps are due a week from today. I have only received a few. It is
easiest to access from the website. Also spread the word. DM Triva
at 9pm. Disney themed.
• Alex: ETHS students came last week and we are going to theirs.
Thursdays at 3:45pm.
• Eliza: Suits is coming to Northwestern. 8pm in Ryan auditorium
next Tuesday.
• Alec: Chi O and SigEp are having fondue night.
• Harrison: Lamda Chi and DZ having nacho night next week.
• Katie: Next week on Tuesday and Wednesday CCE is having info
sessions about summer programs.
Roll Call and Adjournment
•

