12/04/2014

3/5/14 8:59 AM

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the Journal: Available at bit.ly/ASG-Senate-Minutes.
Executive Board Reports
• Katie: As we wrap up this quarter, thank you for your dedication to
Senate. Also we have some new Senators, can you please stand up
and introduce yourself?
[Introductions]
• Abby: Thanks for a great quarter
• Ani: There is a list of everyone who joined the new class of PLI in
my exec board report. Check it out.
• Alex: Continue with 10K submissions. Therapy dogs on Sunday. If
you are living a residence hall that is doing cookie chats, let me
know how they are going.
• David: Your mentee or mentor should be scheduling meetings with
you soon. With Senate Reform, we are rethinking the way we are
going about the process, so let me know if you have any thoughts.
• Sofia: Had a meeting with the CTEC committee, possibly redoing
response format due to a poor response rate.
o Chris: Have they considered sending out more reminder
emails?
They are working on various response structures to make it more
beneficial for professors as well as student feedback. They are
definitely taking a more holistic approach. There is also a lot of just
wrapping up for the quarter.
• Kevin: We had the housing fair which you heard about a little more
earlier. We will have another one in January. We also had the
holiday bash, and we are in the middle of debriefing a bunch of
projects. I am going to some alderman meetings this week. If you
want more info, I can fill you in. We were supposed to have ETHS
student government members come in tonight, but they had a
scheduling conflict. Moving forward though, we are looking to make
more of a partnership with them.
• Siddiq: Not much to say this week. We are working to making this
super expansive spreadsheet. We are working with Sheng about
putting a calendar of events of A-status events.

Neel: Not too much happening this quarter. Just starting to prepare
for next quarter and working on solidifying our best common
practices.
• Noah: I have started interviewing new potential committee
members. Please post your books on Book Swap. As ASG, we
should set the example. For those you don’t know, it is an internal
booking buying and selling resource for Northwestern students.
Also, apply for Deering Days.
• Sheng: API is developing on schedule and we will be pushing
CourseSeek next quarter. This means students will be having much
more updated information.
• Julia: Doing a lot of internal things. Send in 10K submissions and
nomination for DTSA. Also, participate in Purple Fridays, it will be
really fun.
• Wes: Working with CSI about using recycled printer paper. Also
working on a bike plan with the office of sustainability.
General Order: End of Quarter Recap Presentation
• PTI: Any update on benches and tables?
• Alex: It is currently out of our hands, but we are working on
communication?
• Julia: Also the link for the video about CAPS and resources will
begin to
General Order: Budget Presentation
[Presentation]
• Alex: Any questions? Let me know later on if you do have any!
General Order: SGC Confirmations
• Eliza: I am a new Senator and I sat through 2 funding cycles and
knew I wanted to get involved.
• Ariel: I am a junior in econ and I applied because I was looking for
an opportunity to work with the NU community, and I think it the
SGC is a great way to do that.
• Alex: We have 2 candidates for 2 spots?
• Katie: Yes, it is just a vote for confirmations. Any questions? All
those in favor of confirming?
[passes unanimously]
Old Business: SL1314-04: Northwestern Crew New Boat
•

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•

Kaleigh: We are a university club sport and as a crew team we
travel and. We are asking for $4000 for a boat. We are fundraising
and we are looking to get the boat for the spring.
Member: We are a very inclusive environment. We have done many
initiatives and events to involve the community.
Kaleigh: We have an $80,000 budget that
Alex: How long will the boat last?
Kaleigh: It will be on the varsity for 8 years, and then move to the
novice team for 8-10 years. So they last for a long time.
David: Can you talk about where your funding comes from normal?
Kaleigh: we have $1500-1700 dues and we do fundraising on
campus. We also rely a lot on alumni support.
David: Do you know that most fund
Kaleigh: We do get university funding, and we get $10,000 from
the university. If we didn’t get the money from the university, we
would have to raise dues.
Siddiq: Can any student use the boat? How or could this benefit all
students?
Kaleigh: we do not turn away any student who wants to row crew.
Also, the realignment we would be able to do with the new boat will
allow us to have more seats for new students.
Ani: Why are you coming before the aggressive capital campaign
you mentioned you were doing in winter?
Kaleigh: We need half of the money now to order the boat now to
be ready for the spring.
Eliza: What happens if you want to be involved but can’t pay dues?
Kaleigh: There is a CSI fund to subsidize some of the costs, and
you can do more fundraising opportunities to cut off some of your
dues.
Katie: We are moving to debate and moving to a con speech.
Alex: You guys are a great student group, but the money you are
asking for will not be affecting or benefitting many students.
Harrison: Motion to amend amount to $1000.
Senator: 2nd
Harrison: I think the story you are bring forth is very compelling,
but I think this is much more acceptable amount to pass.

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•

Alex: Objection. This is still a lot of money to be asking from the
SAF that will benefit very few students. This amendment will
increase chances
Isaac: I have a question for alex. Is there any amount you would be
willing to pass?
Alex: No.
Eliza: Would you still be able to meet your goal you think if you
only got $1000?
Kaleigh: It would be possible but that is harder.
Evan: would you be willing to come back after your fundraising
efforts in the winter?
Kaleigh: Yes, but I think this is the best time to ask for this money.
We need to purchase the boat as soon as we can.
Alex: PQ
[amendment passes]
Siddiq: Would students have the opportunity to use the boat too, or
just crew members?
Kaleigh: We are looking to have some fundraising efforts to teach
students how to row after our season ends in the spring.
Noah: Motion to amend. Any money that is not used to purchase
the racing shell would be returned to the pool. I think this is a good
cause, but we don’t know how much the capital campaign will raise
so whatever money you don’t need will be returned.
Alex: Object. I just don’t think this is very realistic. If they are
trying to fundraise, we just give them the money or you don’t.
Katie: Pro speech?
Dana: I disagree. They will try to raise as much money as they can
and then if they have money left over it should be returned.
Alex: PQ
[amendment passes]
Katie: We are in line for a pro speech.
Dana: We have talked a lot about the amount of students that this
would be helping. This boat will have a much longer longevitiy than
many other things we fund on boats. And over time we would fund

•

•
•

•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

Ani: There is something also to be said for that this group has high
prestige and goes out to represent Northwestern. We take a lot of
pride in this group, and we have the opportunity to help them
Katie: Con speech.
David: I wish you the best of luck on raising the money. I would
like to say that historically, I don’t think we have every funded a
club team. This money should be going to student groups that do
not have that funding access. However, going off what Ani said, it is
Katie: Pro speech.
Jamie: This is a group that normally does not receive funding, so
this a great opportunity to do so.
Eliza: this boat does have a long lifespan. They have 16 years of
boat use to expand use to northwestern students.
Katie: con speech
Petros: There is no assurance that the boat will be put to the
correct use until 2029. I think this pool could be used to for groups
who need it more and that would have more accountability.
Isaac: Is there any money in athletics available for capital
improvements?
Kaleigh: No not really. That’s why we are here.
Alex: We are giving up 1/10 of our budget for 1/43 of the boat.
Also, they may be trying to sell their boat.
Kaleigh: Our goal is trying to expand the program. We do not want
to sell our current 8 because we would like to expand the program.
Sarah: So any student can join the team?
Kaleigh: Yes, if you make it through your novice year, you are on
the varsity team.
Isaac: How have you historically raised money?
Kaleigh: Mostly with donors and alumni.
Chris: Hypothetically, if you don’t get this money, how long do you
have to order the boat, as well as if you do.
Kaleigh: We need to order the boat by January 1st, we need $2500
more. If we don’t have the money by then, we may not get the
boat until fall.
Chris: would it be more helpful to have a down payment that you
must pay back?

Kaleigh: I am not sure but I don’t think so.
Katie: Pro speech.
Harrison: If you remember Henry Brooke, a senator from last year
on a club team, he felt that ASG helped club teams. This is a
chance to do that.
• Parag: This money would help get money ready early so we should
do this now. I see this as an investment for the crew team.
• Katie: Con speech.
• Siddiq: This group will still function without this funding, while
many other groups on campus will not. And while the Crew team is
incredible, there are groups that cannot function without this
money.
• Alex: Again, this money I don’t think has the benefit to justify the
cost.
• Katie: We are in moving to a vote.
[legislation passes]
New Business: SL1314-07: Hoop for Haiyan
• Arshad: Hi everyone. This is a request for a fundraising basketball
effort to raise money for Haiyan. Just to clarify, no groups have
been tied to this event but things are going. I think this is an
opportunity to really energize students towards a great cause.
Based upon quotes, I have given an exact amount for the event.
This is large amount from the pool, but I think this event could be
really great. I think that this could raise about $5000. The Athletics
office cannot be financially involved, but they are getting involved
in the event and have student athletes to help facilitate the day.
The president’s office is also able to give funding, because I am just
a single student. The tournament can be up to 112 participants
based upon the bracket to set up. There will be a registration fee
and you will get a t-shirt. All the left over t-shirts and water bottles
will be sold. The plan is pretty thoroughly laid out. The money will
be going directly to effort groups and not an umbrella organization.
• Katie: 10 minutes for questions
• Dana: You mentioned the Hoop for Haiti event. Did they have tshirts and stuff?
•
•
•

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

•
•
•
•
•
•

Arshad: They did have t-shirts, but local sponsors paid for the
shirts. Given the short time span, we don’t have too much time for
it.
Chris: would the event still go on without the funding?
Arshad: Yes, but it would not be as profitable. Also the t-shirts help
create an outward appearance of this event is for a cause.
Evan: Could you elaborate on the $200 fee for PR? Don’t we know
have $50 PR budget for groups?
Arshad: This was just an estimate, and I would be open to be
lowering it if you are more comfortable with that.
Luke: how early do you need the money?
Arshad: We need 2 weeks for the t-shirts and water bottles.
Luke: So you can’t wait to pass this next Senate?
Arshad: No. We would need to make this old business tonight.
Senator: have you thought that about only selling the shirts?
Arshad: I am not sure the costs would be less than the profits that
way.
Dana: why did you pick two items to sell. It ups the costs.
Arshad: for the sake of variety I guess.
Korri: Who is your target market for the 88 shirts.
Arshad: supporters of those playing and then selling them outside
Kellogg if they don’t sell after the tournament.
Chris: What other areas have you gone to ask for money other than
athletics and president’s office and what did you do to minimize
costs?
Arshad: I haven’t really but I would like to make this a campus
wide event to unify campus. I want this to be unaffiliated to make it
as campus wide as possible. I also did my own research to get the
best prices to minimize costs.
Katie: We have time for one more question.
Chris: Motion to extend question period by 5 minutes.
Franco: This is just a single event?
Arshad: No I was just modeling after Hoop for Haiti.
Franco: So what is the purpose of having t-shirts and water bottles
to advertise a single event?
Arshad: the relief efforts are ongoing even if the tournament is not.

Alex: How long has the tournament been in the planning process?
Arshad: 3 weeks
Dana: Why are you holding it so soon? Also, no sorority women will
be able to participate and you can get more sponsorships to fund.
• Arshad: It was just earlier in the quarter, so people are less busy.
But that is the a good point about sorority women.
• Senator: What corporate sponsorships have you looked at?
• Arshad: I have looked at those who are were involved in Haiti and
new businesses.
• Parag: Could you push back the event to get corporate
sponsorships?
• Arshad: Yes, but we would still need to money from ASG to fund
the event.
• Katie: Okay this is old business in January.
• Harrison: Motion to move this to old business. I think he explained
why this is needed to be made old business.
• Chris: We also can use this time to amend appropriately.
• Katie: Con speech.
• Isaac: I think we need time to talk to our constituents and you may
need time to figure out some other details.
• Alex: We are in an awkward position, but I think we need the extra
time.
• Katie: Okay, we are in line for a pro speech.
• Petros: I think by holding the event as soon as possible to have the
most effective event.
• Katie: Con speech.
• Evan: I am fully in support with this event, but I think we have
seen that there are issues with this date. So, we could use this as a
chance to move
• Arshad: I also just want to mention that I would have to redo that
paperwork for Student athletes to be involved.
• Alex: PQ
• Senator: 2nd
• Katie: vote
• [7, 20, 1]
New Business: SL1314-08: World Cup Draw Viewing Event
•
•
•

•

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Evan: The World Cup is one of the largest watched sporting event
in the world. We have locked in the McCormick theater in Norris.
We would need $50 for chips and food. I have talked to ISA and NU
World Cup about PR costs and Einstein’s about free bagels. I think
this could be a great event that embodies what the project pool is
for.
Harrison: We are sorry to have to make it old business tonight, but
we the selection party would have to be on Friday and there was no
Senate last week.
Katie: 10 minutes for questions.
Alex: What kind of food?
Evan: Orange juice, cream cheese
Senator: Can you eat in the McCormick theater?
Evan: worst comes to worst, we can eat outside.
Parag: Motion to make this old business?
Alex: 2nd
Alex: PQ
David: objection
Alex: withdrawn
Katie: con speech
David: this is a great idea, but a terrible use of project money. If it
is integral to the event, that is one thing, but not the feed
attendees. If we wouldn’t fund a student group for it, we shouldn’t
fund it now.
Katie: Pro speech
Petros: I love the World Cup and that I think it would bring together
students.
Alex: I think they have done a great job of taking initiative to get
free bagels.
Kevin: Why do you need the money if you have bagels.
Evan: we need drinks and cream cheese.
Katie: Con speech
Ani: I think this is a great event, even from a mental health
prospective of giving money out. Also, I think it was a bit
presumptuous that I have already received advertising that said
ASG is sponsoring it.

Noah: This money is not sponsoring an event, but to feed students
chips. We should be helping new events happen, not funding
extras.
• Alex: Can you further elaborate on the advertising issue?
• Harrison: I’m sorry that was a miscommunication on our part with
NU World Cup on how project pool funding work.
• Evan: Maybe they meant that Harrison and I are working with them
on behalf of ASG.
• Katie: Pro speech.
• Harrison: I think Ani brought up a lot of issues that should be
addressed. As you can see, we are very surprised by the
advertising. Also, this is not haphazard. We have been planning this
out for a while, but there was no Senate last week to bring up.
• Katie: Con speech
• Sofia: I think in terms of fundraising the pool is an outlet and there
are funding outlets on campus that ISA has relations with for you to
go to. There are B-Status whose complete focus is food and that is
the purpose that put in a concerted effort to fundraise even though
their programming is centered around food. This event will happen
regardless and the event is not about food, it is about the World
Cup.
• Sarah: PQ
• Alex: 2nd
• Katie: Move to a vote
[division: 5, 17, 3]
[legislation fails]
Good of the Order & Announcements
• Harrison: Come to see Aaron Greco speak with NUSPAN at Tech at
4pm.
Roll Call and Adjournment
•

